Planning on firing up the grill for the th of July nytimes tastetested hot dogs to help you find the best The days of old style office desks are nearly over. business explores how data amp technology are shaping your desk Parts of President Trumps travel ban will go into effect tonight. CNN reports what to expect A police helicopter attacked the Venezuelan Supreme Court yesterday. CNN details the attack amp response The second cyberattack in months around the world raises concern for possible future assaults. nytimes reports Native American author Sherman Alexie thinks America is becoming a giant reservation. Story via BuzzFeedNews Former tennis star John McEnroe refused to apologize for his comments about Serena Williams. CBSNews The future of Medicaid and health care for million Americans is in doubt. Heres what to know via NPR Go ahead take a nap at work. Your productivity will thank you. nytimes explains A new island appeared off the coast of North Carolina seemingly overnight. CNNTravel explains the sudden appearanc As the Senate health care bill nears vote mothers photo of her childs hospital bill goes viral via Russell Westbrook named NBAMVP. He became first player to average a tripledouble for season since via SInow Hikers take note. The tick threat is serious this year. Slate has some tips to help you protect the family Harry Potter made its debut in the UK years ago today. washingtonpost celebrates HarryPotter The Senate health care bill faces a big week as lawmakers support is uncertain. Heres what to expect via nytimes New stars made a splash amp maryjblige brought down the house at the BETAwards. TIME details the memorable moments George Clooneys billion dollar booze Mario Batali returns to his roots and more in Eaters Week in Food Plastic water bottles are bad for the environment and theyve been that way for thousands of years. Via WIRED Stephen Colbert told a Russian TV show hes considering a run for President. Is this classic Colbert THR reports Its getting so hot that meteorologists are running out of colors to describe the heat via qz What are the most important inventions from every state MarketWatch locates innovation nationwide Now in Weekend Reads The biggest art heist in history the most powerful woman in sports and more Otto Warmbier visited North Korea with a tour group. Were the guides to blame for his death politico reports Is Zika still a thing Yes and heres what you need to know about the tropical virus via TIME A coal tycoon has taken issue with satirist John Oliver and is suing him and HBO. Via HuffPost While most Americans have quit the poor continue to smoke cigarettes. washingtonpost reports Former news anchor Dan Rather says he knows what the country needs more empathy. Via BuzzFeedNews So much content so little time. Thankfully voxdotcom has pieces of cantmiss pop culture to consume now Is the U.S. slowly entering the Syrian civil war Recent events suggest increased involvement via nytimes Good news for grizzly bears The Yellowstone grizzly will be taken off the endangered species list NPR reports Called the crime of the century washingtonpost reports that Putin gave orders to hack the U.S. presidential rac What does it take for a physically abusive cop to lose his badge A lot. HuffPost investigates What happened to Black Lives Matter The group has fallen silent amidst an outpouring of activism. Via Is Uber the same without its founder Over employees have asked for Travis Kalanick to return via axios For years Travis Kalanick was the face of Uber. Now hes no longer CEO what happened washingtonpost takes a loo As superhero movies grow Marvel Comics is expanding its cinematic universe to stay on top. Story via CNET Rough life George Clooneys billion dollar tequila company was started by accident CNBC reports Whats the first thing Twitter CEO jack does in the morning Not open Twitter. More via Recode You dont necessarily need money to be rich. A survey says people have different definitions for wealth via CNBC What is Pamela Andersons relationship to Julian Assange And what does vegan food have to do with it CNN reports Republicans will release a draft of their new health care bill tomorrow. Heres what we know so far via NPR Oscar winner Daniel DayLewis quit acting today. But as VanityFair reports hes tried to retire before Whats the difference between a terrorist and a disturbed loner nytimes explores the politics of labels The worlds greatest art heist has been unsolved for years. One detective wont give up. Story via business If you lost all identification how would you identify yourself washingtonpost reports Does Ken have a man bun Barbies boyfriend got a big makeover. HuffPost has that and more top parenting stories Cars zooms past Wonder Woman to claim the box office crown via EW From portable printers to electric potato peelers these gadgets are sure to simplify your life via RealSimple Before you fork over hardearned cash for a financial planner youll want to read this guide from nytimes Cap off Fathers Day tonight by streaming one of these dadapproved movies via THR Violence in Mexico the worlds longest lava tube and a surfing sea otter NatGeo has the weeks best photograph Kendrick Lamar says SZA is the only person who inspires me in music. Learn about the singer via voguemagazine The largest floating ice block in the world is the size of Texas. And its melting PopSci reports Whole Foods is worth how much Consume the most essential food news in Eaters Week in Food Now in Weekend Reads fascinating Fathers Day facts Chelsea Mannings lonely road and how to quit sugar ASAP A coroners report confirmed that sleep apnea and other factors caused Carrie Fishers death CBS reports Youve seen enough gift guides for Fathers Day. How about some facts about the holiday voxdotcom has five Michael Phelps is coming out of retirement to race his greatest competitor yet an actual shark. Via USATODAY Donald Trump made a big announcement about Cuba. CNBC breaks it down A great junk food conspiracy theory was confirmed Lorde has a secret Instagram about onion ring reviews. Via Instagram photos dont tell the whole story. CNTraveler asked travelers to share the truth behind their best photos Americans love Chinese restaurants. But in the late thcentury they were hotbeds of racial tension. Via NPR In a reversal President Trump will keep protections for Dreamers. Their longterm fate is unclear. Via nytimes How will Amazons acquisition of Whole Foods affect either party business examines the deal Bad news French fry fanatics fried potatoes could kill you. Via CNN Katy Perry is now woke but is that working in her favor nytimes profiles the pop star The Warriors want to keep the team together. USATODAY reports that Kevin Durant and Steph Curry have no plans to g Millennials like products from small food companies but theres still a place for big brands. Via CNBC How much are you saving for retirement Probably too little according to business heres what they recommend Going online can be stressful. GQMagazine looks at the last happy place on the internet Garfield comments A London fire killed at least and injured more than . Heres everything we know so far via nytimes A new Mexican food blog called ChicanoEats boasts bicultural flavors with a beautiful aesthetic. NPR has more Always grumpy Might be a good thing. qz reports on the psychological benefits of a bad mood Instead of a gift take your dad on a trip this Fathers Day. TravelLeisure has ideas Could Dennis Rodman serve as a backdoor negotiator between the US and North Korea latimes reports Heres what to expect from Attorney General Jeff Sessions public testimony today via WSJ The warriors are the NBA champions. Where do they rank among the alltime great teams Via BleacherReport One year after the Pulse Nightclub shooting Orlando officials declare today a day of Love and Kindness via TIME RT CNBC Follow us on AppleNews for the latest business news on stock markets finance amp earnings. These delicious dinners all ready in under an hour will get you through the busy week ahead via FoodNetwork Did you unplug this weekend Congratulations Now heres a look at the biggest news you missed via USAToday Looking for ways to simplify your life These ingenious products are total gamechangers via RealSimple The stock market is booming. Heres everything you need to know before investing via nytimes The Tony Awards are tonight. Heres what to expect from Broadways big night via CNN It seems like theres a new scandal at Uber every other week. Will their CEO deserve to be fired Via VanityFair Six actresses discuss how sexism still plagues Hollywood in a roundtable interview via THR million people are starving in parts of Africa where wars have caused a humanitarian crisis. voxdotcom reports Behind actor Cary Grants slick facade lurked a lonely and insecure man who took LSD to battle his demons. Via NPR Theaters are in trouble. Can rumbling seats and virtual reality save the cinema latimes reports Glowing donuts Starbuckss food failures and how Korean and Southern BBQ came together now Eaters Week in Foo Javier Bardem discusses a new film which even he doesnt understand and his most important work with latimes Ikea is exploring furniture ideas for use on Mars. No word on the meatballs. Via CNET When Trump tweets some people rush to reply. But why BuzzFeedNews investigates Mexico City is an exciting place for food lovers. Eaters critic BillAddison shares restaurant recommendations Warriors coach Steve Kerr had a hysterically sarcastic response to an unusual question nypost reports Keep an eye on the top business news with CNBC. Trending on Apple News Cutting sugar out of your diet can have huge health benefits. CNN explains how and why The UK general election last night resulted in a hung Parliament. voxdotcom explains the shocking results Instagrams CEO is a billionaire but still prone to procrastination. How does he beat it qz explains his trick Work needs a soundtrack. GQMagazine lists the best movie scores to listen to at your desk headphones optional From crowding into bars to watching at the gym people put life on hold for the ComeyHearings via BuzzFeedNews James Comey says he took President Trumps request to drop the investigation into Flynn as a direction via CNBC Watch Live Former FBI director James Comey continues his testimony via CBSNews ComeyHearings Scientists found yearold human bones revising the history of our species. Story via TheAtlantic While many Americans cant get healthcare some are paying up to for private doctors nytimes reports This summer promises plenty of great movies but which ones are worth your time Heres a guide via Refinery Jon Hamm is no Don Draper. The actor spoke about being single and life after Mad Men via InStyle Former FBI director James Comey testifies before the Senate tomorrow. CNBC explains the events that led to this Want to save some money by bringing your lunch to work FoodNetwork has easy tips and recipes UK voters head to the polls tomorrow for an important election. Telegraph explains whats at stake Who is Christopher Wray Here are things to know about President Trumps pick for FBI Director via politico Planning on sending your kid to college Heres how much youll need to make via business Weve reached peak social awkwardness according to washingtonpost. Learn what happens when the quirky become cool What does Made in America mean mic found out what it takes to survive and thrive as a truly American brand Curbing seizures amp memory loss the neurotechnology field is building hardware updates for your... brain Via WSJ A new study says the sooner babies get their own rooms the longer theyll sleep. CNN explains Be careful what you post. students accepted to Harvard lost their spots for sharing offensive memes via CNBC Due to the opioid crisis doctors are rethinking fundamental questions of how they practice medicine via British authorities have identified of the attackers behind Saturdays London Bridge attacks via CNN President Trump will not invoke executive privilege to block former FBI director Comeys testimony. nytimes reports These six simple products will simplify your life guaranteed. RealSimple explains how Dreading the work week Get dinner on the table in a flash with these easy weeknight recipe ideas via FoodNetwork Should you rent or buy your next home nytimes breaks down the smartest strategies to make the most of your money Wonder Woman just made history with its . million opening. THR has all the details Learn how President Obama and the the worlds most interesting man became friends via politico Kathy Griffin is known for controversy. With her latest gaffe BuzzFeedNews argues shes lost her sense of humor The weeks best food news from Jaden Smiths meltdown to Burger Kings royal error are in Eaters Week in Food RT mic Were on AppleNews. Are you Wonder Womans cinematography is receiving rave reviews. What does it take to bring a comic book to life Via President Trump made many strong statements in his ParisAgreement speech. Were they accurate CBSNews fact checks Theres lots of great stuff to watch read and listen to in voxdotcoms cantmiss pieces of pop culture Some of Betsy DeVoss hires are surprisingly progressive but will they wield any influence nytimes reports Dying to take a vacation but worried you cant afford it TravelLeisure shares tips for saving money this summer Its not outer space but its close see photos inside one of the worlds oldest deserts via NatGeo News to rethink the world. Follow mic on Apple News. Now at . U.S. unemployment rate has hit a year low. TIME reports Its NationalDonutDay Heres how to score free donuts from your favorite shops today via mic President Trump has asked the Supreme Court to review his travel ban. bpolitics explains what we can expect RT CNBC lifestyle changes to make if you want to get rich via CNBC on AppleNews Billions of years ago two black holes collided releasing ripples seen by scientists today. Via NatGeo Whats fine dining like at feet CNTraveler spoke with Chef Daniel Boulud about his new menu for Air France Despite todays news a number of U.S. cities promise to honor the ParisAgreement BuzzFeedNews reports Better book a trip to Cuba soon. voxdotcom reports President Trump could announce tighter restrictions on travel Get the latest on the seasonss hottest albums and tours with this summer music guide From WonderWoman to AllEyezOnMe here are notable theatrical releases in June via EW New guidelines say kids under should not drink fruit juice amp more top parenting stories via HuffPost President Trump will announce his decision on the Paris climate agreement today. voxdotcom explains whats at stak A wellness guru peddles moon juice to her celebrity clients. Is she really selling selfabsorption Via nytimes The President of the Philippines has a bad reputation abroad. At home hes beloved. BuzzFeedNews investigates why In one of his most candid interviews ever Prince William discussed the impact of his mothers death with BritishGQ Iceland is a popular tourist destination but why Story via mic A huge brawl between two baseball players yesterday resulted in suspensions for both. See video via sportingnews Hillary Clinton gets lots of letters. Who reads them BuzzFeedNews finds out What is thirdhand smoke and how dangerous is it USATODAY reports The United Kingdom will hold a general election next Thursday. Telegraph explains everything you need to know A large blast in Kabul Afghanistan kills at least . Heres what we know so far via washingtonpost With final decision looming CBSNews explains what happens if the the U.S. withdraws from Paris climate agreement Trending on Apple News Houses in California selling for more than million are at an all time high via nytimes With Memorial Day Weekend sales ending mic has secrets to continue to save money on everything you buy Welcome to summer These grilling recipes will cover all your warmweather needs via HuffPost Take advantage of the long weekend this MemorialDay and tackle your financial todo list via nytimes Good news Its pool season Bad news Turns out pools are way grosser than you thought. TIME has the details Grilling tomorrow Skip the expected burgers and hot dogs and try one of these recipes instead via FoodNetwork Awardwinning author Denis Johnson died on Wednesday. latimes reflects on the brutality and beauty of his work A string of unsuccessful singles hints at image issues for pop star Katy Perry VanityFair reports Going to a cookout Elevate your side dishes with a few simples touches via GQMagazine Catch up on the weekends best pop culture picks with voxdotcom Now in Weekend Reads ways to spend a long weekend the art and science of lying and Twin Peaks decoded From pork belly to pig ears Americans are eating a ridiculous amount of pork. washingtonpost examines why See the weeks most moving surreal and sorrowful photos in this BuzzFeedNews gallery You can learn a lot about a country through its books and films. ambassadors share their cultural picks via Whats postcampaign life been like for Hillary Clinton This profile by TheCut answers that question and others Having trouble staying motivated with your diet TIME reports why there isnt one perfect diet for everyone Be careful this summer were in for an aboveaverage hurricane season. CNBC has a few tips to help you prepare Hit the road early fire up the grill amp dont get burned. Heres how to make the most of your Memorial Day weekend As Venezuela crumbles a group of local photographers are keeping the country on the worlds radar. Via TIME While Mark Zuckerberg was at Harvard a hacker used the school newspaper to troll the tech titan verge reports Getting sick on vacation is the worst. One travel doctor shares preventative measures via washingtonpost Whales werent always gigantic. Heres how they got so big via NPR Get your cameras ready NatGeo showcases the top wild places to photograph The Congressional Budget Office analyzed the impact of the new healthcare bill on Wednesday. mic has takeaways A different perspective for StarWarsth. NBCNews reports how the film changed the lives of the background actors Who is congressional candidate Greg Gianforte nytimes provides background on the Republican charged with assault RT EW Follow us on AppleNews for the latest in movies tv music and pop culture Who drives the bigrig trucks on Americas highways Meet drivers with sad surprising stories to share via Memorial Day is days away. Scientifically improve your BBQ grill game via inversedotcom Go behind the scenes with your favorite stars from movies TV and music. Follow EW on Apple News. Pope Francis asked President Trump to be an olive tree to construct peace in Vatican meeting viaFortuneMagazine The Manchester bombing probe is focusing on a possible network of suspects washingtonpost reports Whether youre excited by Twin Peaks or totally confused voxdotcom has decoded what makes the show so surreal Boyle Heights is an L.A. neighborhood fighting gentrification. Their target Art galleries latimes reports Does a good airport breakfast exist Yes Heres where chefs eat before early flights via Eater Roger Moore who played James Bond in films has died at age . Watch JKCordens touching tribute to the victims of the ManchesterBombing from last nights show via billboard Heres the latest on the ManchesterBombing at an Ariana Grande concert last night. nytimes reports Put away that frozen pizza here are delicious amp healthy recipes from FoodNetwork that every grownup should kno Empire ends season with a bang amp TheBachelorette makes history. Here are top TV stories this week via THR Last night Drake set a BBMAs record by bringing home awards. billboard recaps the awards ceremony Our food supply is protected in a global seed vault but the vault isnt safe from climate change WIRED reports Whats the value of a vintage car Besides looking great classic rides offer drivers a digital detox. Via Twitters Evan Williams thought tweets would make the world better. Today he says he was wrong nytimes reports From Yelprelated drama at Yale to a dress made of Starburst wrappers Eater looks back at the week in food Now in Weekend Reads The worlds coolest dinner parties why LaVar Ball wont stop talking and SNLs yuuuge yea A Basquiat painting caused a crowd at Sothebys to gasp. Why It sold for more than million nytimes reports Planning to see Alien Covenant Read this refresher on the entire Alien franchise via THR At John John Florence is the worlds best surfer but he could care less. GQMagazine visited him in Hawaii Looking for a special gift this graduation season Here are gifts grads will love Did you know exercise has antiaging benefits Find out more in TIMEs weekly health roundup What do bullets really do to the human body Highline goes behind the scenes with a trauma surgeon LaVar Ball is the loud proud father of basketball star Lonzo Ball. espn sat down with both to learn their story Selena Gomezs latest inspiration Talking Heads who approved Gomezs latest track VanityFair reports With Twin Peaks returning to TV TIME sent photographer Todd Hido to shoot the shows real life locations The circus is an ancient form of entertainment. But amidst reports of animal abuse can the show go on Via NatGeo From lifelong learning to embracing openness here are lessons from FastCompanys most creative people of Robert Mueller was appointed special counsel for the Russian interference investigation. NBCNews details his career Musicians are paying tribute to former Soundgarden frontman Chris Cornell who died at via EW Meet Kim Kardashians righthand lady the woman responsible for helping run the Kardashian show. Via Refinery Is avocado toast the reason millennials cant afford houses Definitely not reports latimes Chefs are expert travelers. These top chefs share their travel secrets with CNTraveler With expertise and brevity Axios is a worthy source for politics media and tech. The Cannes Film Festival has officially begun Here are the films everyone will be talking about via VanityFair Will using laptops be banned on flights from Europe Officials are meeting today to discuss the proposal via TIME WATCH How did Pomp amp Circumstance become the official graduation song voxdotcom explains Weeks before the Fyre Festival was set to kick off organizers were buried under millions in debt. business reports Trending on Apple News A German discount chain has WalMart worried. WSJ explains why Chelsea Manning is set for release from prison tomorrow. Heres what to know about the whistleblower via TIME Police departments across the country are deploying new means to catch those who text and drive via WSJ English muffin breakfast pizzas amp more delicious breakfast ideas for spring from FoodNetwork Video of a giant sea monster has the internet going crazy. So what exactly is that thing inversedotcom explains Where does James Comey keep his files Not in a cardboard box. WIRED reports that most secret documents are digita Weve all heard the expression American as apple pie. Funny thing is apple pie isnt so American From Wonder Woman to War for the Planet of the Apes mic lists the mustsee movies of the summer Now in Weekend Reads The untold story of Mothers Day Brad Pitts tellall interview and the Disney World of win Be warned future Bay Area residents is considered lowincome in San Francisco. CNBC reports Set in Italy Master of None season is full of Italian film references. Slate lists them some spoilers ahead Need a quick flavor boost Chef Sean Brocks pantry favorites will make almost anything delicious via Goldie Hawn talks love Richard Simmons sues an old associate and more Hollywood news in peoples Celebrity Scoop Average salaries for new college graduates are the highest they have been in a decade. WSJ reports Trending on Apple News Canadian miners found a well preserved million year old dinosaur fossil via NatGeo Get a full break down of HarryStyles first solo album via Complex Want to save money on almost everything you buy mic has shopping tricks for you Thanks to advancements in medicine people with HIV are living years longer on average. Story via TIME Need some lastminute gift ideas for MothersDay Here are some articles with swoonworthy ideas See photos from the NatGeo community capturing the complex amp intriguing beauty of their daily commute Bad date Maybe its because youre bad with money CNBC reports Traveling this summer Pay attention to the news it could affect your vacation plans. WSJ explains Buying eggs has become complex. Decode the words on the carton via TheAtlantic Can you picture The Rock for President The actor said its a real possibility. Via YahooCelebrity Trending on Apple News New poll shows GOP healthcare bill support declining via politico From the hectic events to the backlash and confusion CNN takes you behind the scenes of the ComeyFiring May is a great time for television. qz lists all the amazing shows worth watching this month America is experiencing a water crisis. So why is nobody talking about it voxdotcom has more What do people think of you A psychologist says most of us are lying to ourselves. Via thescienceofus After ending a season run on FOX AmericanIdol is officially returning on ABC. Story via THR Coffee cheesecake mojito Oreo is looking for its next big flavor idea from the fans via USATODAY Rising costs amp economic impacts are causing fewer cities to bid on hosting the Olympic Games via washingtonpost NuggsForCarter is a success carterjwm broke the retweet record for a years supply of Wendys nuggets via TIME New evidence suggests this apehuman fossil might be far younger than originally thought via NatGeo Love games Polygon has you covered. Sit back take a minute and breathe.CNBC offers tips to reduce stress and increase productivity Now in Weekend Reads The dark side of Instagram Greeces bestkept secret and the worlds biggest superbunker A study claims people were in America years ago. Archaeologists are skeptical TheAtlantic reports Meet the real Chef Curry ayeshacurry that is. Eater reports that shes opening a BBQ restaurant Whats the KentuckyDerby all about Mint juleps fashion and a little decadence and depravity says nytimes The FCC will review complaints about Stephen Colberts Trump joke. Will they do anything else business reports These vegans have beef. BuzzFeedNews reports on a popular vegan YouTube channel thats rife with drama Remember bootcut jeans MTVNews revisits the Movie Awards with some charming throwback photos Aaron Hernandezs last letter to his fiance included a cryptic hint about things to come NBCNews reports Without explanation Kanye West has deleted his Instagram and Twitter accounts. Via billboard Days before the French election a massive hacking operation has struck the frontrunners campaign. Via nytimes Stephen Hawking says our planet is increasingly precarious and we must colonize another within years via CNBC How would the new healthcare bill impact the country WSJ assesses the bill as it stands today Miley Cyrus is back. She spoke with billboard about gender fluidity pansexuality politics and love Are you ready for even more Game of Thrones HBO thinks you are. Its developing four spinoffs via EW Hoping to unite religious leaders Trump will visit the Vatican Israel and Saudi Arabia. washingtonpost reports Whats still standing in the way of the House healthcare bill A skeptical Senate nytimes reports Looking for something fun to do this weekend voxdotcom has great suggestions A perfect read for StarWarsDay. TIME offers a glimpse into the original Star Wars script before it was rewritten A surfer who was stranded for more than hours at sea recounts his harrowing ordeal to BBCNews The new healthcare bill is up for a vote today in Congress. Heres what you need to know about it via NBCNews Hold your breath drink water upsidedown people try strange things to cure hiccups but do they work Via TIME Avocados are in high demand and short supply. washingtonpost reports why you may pay more for guacamole this May Airlines have become political targets. After a series of scandals Congress is threatening action. Via CNTraveler Looking for photography that tells a story BuzzFeedNews curates the weeks best narrative photojournalism Do you recognize these geniuses Because of their bold ideas many were ignored on purpose. Via NatGeo A new generation is rejecting gender preferring pronouns like they or them to him or her NPR reports The shows will go on Hollywood writers and studios have reached a new deal. CNNMoney has the details. Watch jimmykimmel tearfuly recount the details of his newborn sons successful openheart surgery. Via TIME Hello Dolly revival earns Tony Award nods including Best Actress BetteMidler. tonyawards list via EW Savvy style tips health news daily inspiration and more. Refinery has what you need. WATCH SpaceX rocket blasts off and touches back down successfully. business details the mission Get ready for Live With Kelly amp Ryan RyanSeacrest will join KellyRipas talk show. Story via THR Meet the hero scientists saving us from a world without coffee via business Keep up the googoo gaga. Turns out baby talk is GOOD for babies via qz All the valuable life lessons learned from the Frye Festival disaster via TheCut Will Ferrell revived his George W. Bush impression last night. Heres what he had to say via TIME Frustrated by traffic Elon Musk wants to build underground tunnels for cars. Heres an early look via Recode Its easy to kill a journalist in Mexico where cartels and corrupt officials threaten lives. Via nytimes How did other presidents fare in their first days voxdotcom examines great starts plus bad ones Now in Weekend Reads Murder in Silicon Valley Mexicos meal of the decade and the SNL star set to make history years after the Rodney King riots L.A. has changed. But the ghosts of the past still linger. Story via NBCNews What exactly is going on with North Korea Should we be worried voxdotcom explains the nuclear threat Can sparkling water ruin your teeth A dentist says the acid levels are worse than vinegar DailyMail reports A luxury festival built around Instagram models and pricey tickets fell to pieces today VanityFair reports The return of the Gorillaz a racy new katyperry song featuring Migos and more in billboards new music roundup Remember Blockbuster video stores They still exist however you may need to travel a ways to find one qz reports The MetGala is coming this Monday. Heres everything you need to know about fashions biggest night via CNN Whats a twiceconvicted con artist doing at MaraLago Seeking government contracts. BuzzFeedNews investigates According to Kim Kardashian getting robbed was lifechanging Im such a different person. CNN has more Are you a picky eater You might be a supertaster but dont gloat just yet. Via thescienceofus Is Jonah Hill a lowkey style god An emphatic yes according to GQMagazine. See why From saving money for a vacation to saving precious time mic has helpful tips to save where it counts Reaching for another cup of coffee TIME lets us know how much is really safe to drink United will now pay as much as for passengers willing to give up their seats via business Seattle Portland and Denver have a potential solution for their homeless population tiny houses. Via WSJ The NFLDraft starts tomorrow. Not excited BleacherReport lists reasons to get the draft bug If Hollywoods writers go on strike what happens to your favorite TV shows business reports President Trump signed an order that could rollback a law protecting national monuments CNN reports Pope Francis gave a surprise TED Talk last night. Heres the revolution hes calling for via HuffPost United Airlines has taken another blow to its image after a giant rabbit died on a flight. Via CBSNews Celebrate NationalPretzelDay with these freebies and deals via USATODAY Jonathan Demme Oscarwinning director of The Silence of the Lambs has died at . THR recalls his career Is Whole Foods in trouble The grocery store chain is taking steps to attract new and old customers Eater reports Dont mess with actor Tom Hardy. VanityFair reports the star of Mad Max went to great lengths to catch a thief Being a food vendor is demanding. nytimes chronicles a day in the life of a man selling food on NYC sidewalks Iraqi bicyclists are worried about more than potholes theyre dodging gunfire mortars and ISIS. Via latimes Wondering what to watch this summer HuffPost has your TV mustwatch list NASCAR icon Dale Earnhardt Jr. is retiring at the end of the season. ESPN details his successful career .Eater keeps you up on your citys most mouthwatering news. Need some stressfree dinner ideas to get you through the work week FoodNetwork has you covered Hashbrowns with a side of golf balls CNN has details on a truly bizarre food recall Looking for a beach getaway Check out this list of undiscovered coastal gems from business Bill OReilly just announced his next move. Get the latest on the return of his podcast via THR The French election is heading for a runoff between Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen. washingtonpost has more President Trumps trade war could cost your teeth. business reports that of dental restorations are made abroa Surgeon General Vivek Murthy was dismissed voxdotcom reports. Hell be replaced by the nations first nondoctor Stunning landscapes life in the Arctic and Easter in Jerusalem see the weeks most compelling photos via The MarchForScience started on Reddit. Learn how one post launched worldwide marches via mic Now in Weekend Reads Ending pain forever Katy Perrys serious side and a juicer with an embarrassing secret At least Afghan soldiers were killed today in a Taliban attack washingtonpost reports Can you imagine life without water In Bolivia disappearing lakes are changing lives. Take a look via Nows the time to plan a trip to Europe. TravelLeisure reports that ticket prices are down nearly Virgins Richard Branson clearly knows about success. But what does he read CNBC lists his favorite books Whats the real value of a dinner TastingTable takes a look at one of the most expensive meals ever Big weekend sports fans Both the NBA and NHL have playoff games. Heres what to watch via SBNation Heres why people across the world are participating in the March for Science this weekend via washingtonpost Why youre always hungry the benefits of biking to work amp more in some of the weeks biggest health news via Here are easy money habits that can make you wealthier via CNBC Considered one of the best American films Woody Allens Annie Hall almost didnt get made VanityFair reveals Not everyone loves the Unicorn Frappuccino. grubstreet reports that Starbucks baristas are crying for help Beyoncs album Lemonade a masterpiece about the lives of women of color won a Peabody Award. Via From San Diego to Sydney some surfers avoid crowds and catch waves at night. Is it worth the risks Via nytimes Video of a beaver herding cows has gone viral. Whats the deal An animal behaviorist explains via PopSci When Ashton Kutcher and Madonna need tech advice they talk to Abe Burns celebrity techsplainer. Via business A bigger and bulkier Earth a SuperEarth could contain signs of alien life. Via NatGeo If youve seen CNN youve seen jaketappers WTF Face described poetically in this GQMagazine profile Are you treating your fridge properly Here are some universal dos and donts via FoodNetwork Take on one of these challenges if youre looking for the ultimate national park adventure via NatGeo Here are mustsee movies picked by THR In Iceland will have more tourists than residents. CNTraveler explores what happens when a place gets popular How do celebrities spend their money stars talked finances with business Snapchat introduced new live filters that animate any environment. TechCrunch reports Whats thirdhand smoke A new study found that tobacco residue clings to household surfaces. Via NewsHour Overwhelmed by all the news Here are important stories that shouldnt get lost in the deluge via NewsHour Today is officially the dreaded TaxDay. Heres what you should know via TIME The first woman to enter the Boston Marathon crossed the finish line again years later. NBCNews has her story This playoff season follow ESPN for the biggest plays highlights and all the sports you can handle. Lena Dunhams HBO series Girls is over after six seasons. THR talks to the showrunners about the final storyline Not ready to file your taxes by tomorrow USATODAY explains how to get an extension Weeknight meals dont have to be a big time commitment. FoodNetwork has recipes you can make in less than an hou The Roots are for the kids. The hiphop group is developing an animated childrens series for Amazon. Via Variety Locol the fastfood restaurant with a soul sells coffee for . Can great coffee come cheap Eater reports At Coachella Find great places to eat and drink via voguemagazine The NBA playoffs start today. SInow digs into burning questions ahead of the games What did the world look like this week NatGeo curates the most compelling photos you mightve missed Now in Weekend Reads The perils of peak yoga why air travel is terrible and the mind behind Silicon Valley Newcomers are transforming small towns blending city culture with rural charm. TravelLeisure takes a look Which wine region is having the best year Bordeaux. business lists their top plus with the best value The Last Jedi trailer is here. According to verge its deliberately vague. Is that a good thing RIP Bennifer people reports that Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner filed for divorce. Get the full celebrity scoop Forget that a.m. calculus class. A new study says college classes shouldnt start until closer to noon via WSJ Heres some of the biggest news of the week captured in photos. Via CNN Say goodbye to Lucky Charms. Heres what the worlds healthiest countries eat for breakfast via mic Whats been the fallout for United Airlines Perception of the company hit a yearlow according to This is not a drill You can wash Legos in a dishwasher. PopSci lists other surprisingly dishwashersafe items Those images of dead Syrian children wont soon be forgotten but Assad says theyre fake nytimes reports Maybe we arent alone. NASA said one of Saturns moons shows potential for life. Via business Taiwan has outlawed eatings dogs and cats the first country in Asia to do so. NatGeo has more Which airlines are most likely to bump you from your seat CNBC reports on the worst records The best healthy desserts how to maintain your diet at the office and more in this weeks health guide Millions of Americans take multivitamins but is it a good idea Two experts weigh in. Via WSJ Indulge in your favorite Easter dishes while staying healthy with these recipes from FoodNetwork You have less than a week left to file your taxes. Here are some lastminute tips to make it less painful. Noma one of the worlds best restaurants has opened a popup in Mexico. Heres what you need to know via Eater What if you could renegotiate the terms of your marriage qz reports on a new trend trial marriages Boycotting United is easier said than done according to washingtonpost. Heres why Did astronomers finally photograph a black hole Maybe NatGeo reports A bottle of wine in Singapore costs HOW much Check out this list of the worlds most expensive cities via CNBC Heres what to do if youre on an overbooked flight and what your rights are as a passenger. WSJ reports Bad news for your bedroom Bed bugs are becoming even harder to kill via TIME Think youre overtaxed The answer might be moving to another country business reports One of Neil Gorsuchs jobs as the freshman Supreme Court justice will be cafeteria duty. businessinsider explain Celebrity gossip guilty pleasures and all the Housewives you can handle Bravotv has it all. This is why chocolate and peanut butter taste so heavenly when mixed together according to science. Via mic Still havent filed your taxes Here are some lastminute tips before the April deadline via USATODAY Here are things you need to know to get your week started via CNN Are you addicted to organizing Then youll recognize these warning signs via HGTV Get ready for the workweek with these easy dinners you can get on the table in under an hour via FoodNetwork Victoria Beckhams highly anticipated collection for Target drops today. Here are musthave pieces via people Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. and more Get excited for these films coming this spring via THR Neil Gorsuch joins the Supreme Court this week. Heres why his impact will be felt immediately via latimes Rich fatty street food is across Mexico for cheap. And its fueling the countrys diabetes epidemic NPR reports With help from RoadsKingdoms Anthony Bourdain launched a new interactive travel site. Via TravelLeisure How well do you know religions Take CNNs quiz and test your knowledge Glenn OBrien the NY renaissance manwriter and GQMagazines original Style Guy died yesterday. GQ pays tribute The worlds best restaurants were announced this week. Eater looks at whats wrong with that list Well miss veteran tech reporter waltmossberg who announced hes retiring. Read his goodbye to Recode readers Beware of dog Canine attacks on postal workers are at a year high. Whats up washingtonpost has more Whats in theaters this week THR reviews whats new The Syrian girl who tweeted about Aleppos downfall said she approves of yesterdays airstrikes TIME reports Meet high school sweethearts who were reunited amp tied the knot years after they went to prom via BuzzFeedNews Former Seinfeld writerproducers recall storylines that never made it into the iconic show via EW Heres what we know about the U.S. strike against Syria via voxdotcom Heres how latenight hosts paid tribute to the sharp and generous Don Rickles via THR Whats Mitt Romneys next move Maybe running for Senate in Utah according to TheAtlantic Ouch That illfated Pepsi ad starring Kendall Jenner cost the soda maker a pretty penny. people has the details Why did Twitter sue the U.S. government today Recode explains To get dissed by Don Rickles was an honor. nytimes revisits the life of the comedian who died today at . There are lots of new ways to fly to Europe inexpensively this summer. Heres what you need to know via WSJ How much do you really know about your financial health Here are of the key numbers you should check via mic A influential ranking of the worlds best restaurants is out and a New York spot is at No. . Via Eater Could a North Korean missile hit the U.S. Probably washingtonpost reports If youre traveling with kids get them thinking instead of just being entertained with apps via nytimes A yearold settlement found in Canada calls into question Native American origins via SmithsonianMag The Pepsi ad was an epic fail or was it TheAtlantic has a very different take on the controversial commercial How will the world respond to Syria Global outrage is mounting NPR reports It pays to get a second opinion. A new study found doctors usually arent right the first time. Via qz Meet one teen who was accepted to all eight Ivy League schools plus Stanford via HuffingtonPost Scrambling to get your taxes done Check this list to make sure you dont make some common mistakes. Via CBSNews Does your office have a gym Learn how to avoid awkward encounters with coworkers via WSJ Should you be nervous if a U.S. border agent asks to see your cellphone Find out via NBCNews The father of the World Wide Web won a prize for his invention today. But hes worried about its future via NPR A deadly chemical attack killed dozens including children in Syria today nytimes reports April is a packed month for TV. Here are shows worth making time for via voxdotcom Here are important stories you might have missed in the news deluge this past week via NewsHour You can get free ice cream today at Ben amp Jerrys. Yes this is for real. HuffingtonPost has the details A year after a crushing defeat North Carolina won the NCAA title. USATODAY reports on the storybook ending How playing Tetris can help patients dealing with PTSD via TIME Why people are PAYING to work from bars and restaurants via business Still reeling from last nights shocking finale of Big Little Lies vulture has some thoughts Country goes glam Here are all the red carpet looks from last nights ACM Awards via BuzzFeed Our days could use more NatGeo. Subscribe on Apple News for incredible stories of exploration amp natural wonders. Doris Day turns today but until this weekend she thought she was two years younger. Via guardian Tax Day is coming soon. Get up to speed on these common deductions and their restrictions. Via WSJ Heres what to expect this week in the showdown over President Trumps pick for the Supreme Court. Via nytimes Play ball Major League Baseball is finally back. Heres what to expect from the season Still havent filed your taxes Dont panic CNBC explains what you should do now Tina Fey blasts collegeeducated white women who supported Donald Trump. washingtonpost has more Why spring is the perfect time to take your workout outdoors via TIME UNC will face Gonzaga for the NCAA championship on Monday. Heres everything you need to know via BleacherReport Get the oven ready Psychologists reveal why baking for others is good for you via HuffingtonPost A World War II veteran came out as transgender at yearsold. Read about her courageous journey via people Can an expunk rocker take Ted Cruzs Senate seat Via Reuters Now in Weekend Reads Meet the bro who went rogue the worlds hottest grandpa and the myth of Pocahontas The Justice Department warns sanctuary cities that immigration crackdowns will keep happening BuzzFeedNews report Is Pamela Anderson dating Julian Assange What does Eminems daughter look like peoples got the Celebrity Scoop April Fools pranks are generally speaking pretty lame. washingtonpost lists all the jokes circulating online Internet providers can now sell info about your online history. BuzzFeedNews has a guide to protecting your privacy Not down with the Final Four Heres what else to watch this weekend via THR Before you file your taxes make sure youre avoiding this expensive mistake. Via WSJ Here are healthy comfort food recipes to prep this weekend for the week ahead via HuffingtonPost Its been a busy week of news across the world. CNN recaps the top moments in photos Here are ways to be successful in business from Mark Cuban amp other investors on the show Shark Tank. Via Amazon and Walmart are waging war over low prices. And brands are caught in the crossfire. Story via Recode Looking for a great podcast The culture team at TIME lists their favorites No joke On April Fools Day one comet will come closer to Earth than it ever has before. Via USATODAY Its finally here Watch the trailer for season of Game of Thrones via THR In exchange for immunity Michael Flynn will testify about the Trump campaigns alleged ties to Russia WSJ reports How much does your tax accountant know about your personality One expert weighs in via WSJ Theres a special piece of internet real estate up for sale And its not cheap. Via qz People with nut allergies just got some good news. TIME reports The bachelors degree is losing its luster in the U.S. job market. Heres why via business Did Angelina Jolies wild reputation partly help her land the role of Lara Croft in Tomb Raider Via people Travel writing rides a line between escapism and exploitation. TheAtlantic discusses the difference An Indonesian man went missing in the jungle. Then he was found dead inside of a giant python. NatGeo explains Some small towns are big on wealth. business lists Americas richest micro areas Changing course Ivanka Trump will become an official government employee nytimes reports Tax Day is around the corner. Here are some tips to help you save money and cut down on stress before you file A scientific breakthrough allowed a quadriplegic to move his arm to drink coffee and scratch his nose. TIME reports These are the best places around the world to live according to a new ranking by the United Nations. Via mic Here are the top stories you need to know to get your day started via nytimes The creators of Serial are back with a new podcast. Does it live up to the hype Via WIRED Theres no easy way to say this There are enough spiders to eat everyone on Earth in a year. Via washingtonpost Michigan will finally replace thousands of water lines in the city of Flint Reuters reports Set your DVR These are the TV shows that will be making headlines this week via THR Heres why its actually GOOD news if youre not getting a big tax refund via MONEY Take a break from politics and catch up on these important stories you may have missed via NewsHour Heres what you need to know about Trumps plans to dismantle Obamaera climate policies via nytimes Vil Kilmer loves Cate Blanchett. A lot. In fact maybe too much. Refinery explains Are you paying too much to get your taxes done business investigates Now that the FinalFour is set heres everything you need to know about the remaining teams via BleacherReport Blame Big Foot An Idaho woman claims her recent car crash was caused by a Sasquatch Via FoxNews Your annual creditcard fees are not set in stone. A new survey found you can get relief if you ask for it. Via Get up to speed on what investors need to know for the next five days via CNBC After their health care defeat Republicans are moving on to tax reform. nytimes reports on the challenges ahead Two months out of office Barack Obama is reshaping the role of former president. washingtonpost explains Heres how you can spring clean your entire house in less than hours via HGTV You really need to see Hugh Grant dancing to Drakes Hotline Bling. TIME has it covered Learn how to tackle your bucket list find great trips to take this spring and more in todays travel guide Obamacare is alive and kicking. Heres what that means for you via CNNMoney Whats next in the battle between Donald Trump and Congress nytimes investigates Read the wild story of a Wall Street informant who doublecrossed the FBI Bro Im going rogue. Via business Bad wine can be pretty good. Drink confidently the next time some snob snubs your bottle via nytimes Jenny Slate is an actress writer and the voice of a beloved animated shell. Oh and she used to date Chris Evans In five months prominent Russians have died. Whats going on CNN takes a look Whats next on Trumps agenda NBCNews looks at the Presidents plans going forward Brad Pitts single but not ready to mingle. The actor is in better spirits thanks to old friends people report Could you survive alone in the woods for years Christopher Knight did then he was arrested. Via guardian Now in Weekend Reads Why cheap wine is fine dudes who love Disney and the NBAs obsession with PBampJ Rapper Kendrick Lamar released a new track which takes aim at President Trump. Via USAToday Multiply the size of California by . Thats how much ice the Arctic is missing. qz has more Whats on tap in the sports world Heres what to watch read and know this weekend via SBNation Republicans pulled the health care bill today. Find out what happened via NPR Follow Complex on Apple News for the latest in music style entertainment sports and sneakers. Venting about work is satisfying in the moment but could make you feel worse in the long run. Via thescienceofus A nanny cam caught hilarious footage of twin toddlers having an allnight party pillow forts included. Via TIME Swap out your bedding. Prep your closets. Here are eight ways to usher in the start of spring via hgtv The distractions that come with March Madness could cost workplaces billions in lost productivity reports The NBA has a secret obsession PBampJ. Read how this gradeschool snack became a courtside staple via ESPN Middleaged white Americans are dying at alarming rates according to a new study. WSJ reports Whats the latest on the Republican health care bill See where it stands via voxdotcom Twin Peaks is back. GQMagazine tried and somewhat succeeded at getting into the mind of director David Lynch Can carbs actually help you lose weight Find out what the experts say. Via FoxNews The movie Get Out has soared beyond expectations at the box office. Heres why via latimes In honor of NationalPuppyDay here are some photos of cute puppies Via USATODAY Everything you need to know about the Sweet including players to watch and the TV schedule. Via BleacherReport Heres the latest on what we know about the London terror attack via guardian Talking to your kids about terror attacks is a touchy subject. qz has a guide Wheres Richard Simmons After a new podcast explored his whereabouts his family spoke out. Via people For the first time in U.S. history a bumblebee species has been added to the endangered list. Story via NatGeo Scared of missing the tax deadline Heres how to get more time to file via mic Heres everything we know and dont know about todays attack in London via nytimes Is geography to blame when you dont go to the gym WSJ investigates The Labrador retriever kept its title as the most popular dog breed in the U.S. via TIME The surprising truth about toilet seat covers the upside to a dreaded workout amp more in this weeks health guide Heres what to watch as Judge Neil Gorsuch faces a second day of questioning via nytimes Dave Chappelle is back and Louis C.K. Sarah Silverman and comedians with new specials. vulture has a preview Who eats cereal CNNMoney reports that sales are down and millennials might be the reason why The travel industry isnt thrilled with the new airport rules. Story via BuzzFeedNews How much will retirement cost in Americans say theyll need million to retire business reports Restaurant matchbooks are becoming collectors items. See some of the best via TastingTable Dread doing burpees at the gym Heres what happened when one woman did burpees for days via runnersworld Skip the credit cards. Automate everything. These tips can help you do a better job at saving money via CNBC Here are important and politicsfree stories you might have missed in the news deluge via NewsHour This is what you need to know about the Trump administrations airline electronics ban via CNNMoney Why do we find ugly animals cute NatGeo investigates Meet Julia the first Sesame Street muppet with autism. Via vulture Dave Chapelle says Key amp Peele hurts his feelings. EW explains Bill Gates has been named the worlds richest man again. Where does Donald Trump fall on the list Via DailyMail Breathe easy sports fans. Tom Bradys missing Super Bowl jersey has been found via SInow Last call Dairy Queen and Ritas are both giving away FREE frozen treats today via BuzzFeedNews Its officially spring These places will help you emerge from your winter burrows via NatGeo HappySpring Need a primer on the latest in politics culture amp tech voxdotcoms explainers give you the lowdown. Norway has topped an annual happiness report while the U.S. came in th. Via BBCNews Beauty and the Beast had a huge weekend at the box office. Here are the records it broke via THR Its a big week for Trump on key issues Russia the Supreme Court amp health care. washingtonpost reports A look at all the major stories you may have missed while you unplugged this weekend via WIRED Want to get away This weeks travel guide explains where youll get the most bang for your buck From advertising to Instagram a look at the delicious science of food porn via guardian Think your student loans were brutal In years college could cost around via BuzzFeedNews Remember the incomparable Chuck Berry with this list of his most essential songs via nytimes This week will be critically important for the Trump administration. Heres why via CNN Heres everything you need to know about todays MarchMadness matchups via BleacherReport The worlds banana population is endangered by a new pathogen. Heres why thats a big problem via WIRED of Americans cant answer this important question about retirement can you Via CNBC What happens when the Queen dies Buckingham Palace has a secret plan outlined in this guardian longread Better save for college BuzzFeedNews reports that a degree could cost in years Breaking Chuck Berry the legendary musician who helped popularize rock amp roll dies at . Via EW A cough syrup cocktail has been abused for years. Whos to blame rappers or pharmaceutical companies Via The home of the man killed in Paris today was searched right after the November attacks via USATODAY Day of MarchMadness is underway. BleacherReport has everything you need to know Why are scientists resurrecting woolly mammoths To fight climate change of course. Get the whole story and more i Why are some theaters in Russia Malaysia and Alabama boycotting the new Beauty and the Beast voxdotcom explains Healthy food doesnt have to be expensive. TIME lists tasty items that cost less than per serving See the most compelling and captivating images of the week via NatGeo The Justice Department delivered documents on Trumps wiretapping claim to Congress Reuters reports Weekends were made for baking. Try these delicious recipes to add to your repertoire. Via FoodNetwork Is having two master bedrooms the secret to maintaining a happy marriage WSJ investigates In honor of StPatricksDay check out the top historic sites in Ireland and Northern Ireland via NatGeo Day two of MarchMadness is about to tip off. Heres what you need to know via BleacherReport Where did your ancestors live The answer could determine the size and shape of your nose guardian reports Why are whales mysteriously gathering off the coast of South Africa Scientists are stumped via NatGeo One group of undocumented immigrants has gone unnoticed the Irish. CNN reports Anthony Bourdain was in lots of debt. Heres how he got out of it via foodandwine This Is Us star Milo Ventimiglia opens up about the shows heavily anticipated season finale via EW MarchMadness tips off today. Stay on top of the news amp highlights by following BleacherReport in Apple News. Find out which Girl Scout cookies are best and worst for your calorie intake in this weeks health guide Heres what you need to know about Trumps latest travel ban and why it was blocked via CNN What would happen if a penny fell from a skyscraper and landed on your head Not what you might think via Have you seen Get Out The film directed by JordanPeele has officially made box office history NBCNews reports was a terrible year for the Great Barrier Reef. of the colorful reefs have been bleached. Story via How do your March Madness picks compare with Obamas POTUS shares his bracket via HuffingtonPost How do restaurants react when celebrities like Oprah show up VanityFair explains Heres how to fill out a bracket and follow MarchMadness whether youre a sports fan or not Before filing your taxes find out if you qualify for these kinds of tax credits. Via CBSNews Here are things to know about the Federal Reserves expected rate increase today via CNN Meet the worlds most obsessed Velvet Underground fan a man who bought copies of the same album via NPR Why do some writers lie From literary hoaxes to fabricated sources VanityFair explores some tall tales Silicon Valley has its own language or geek speak that has spread beyond the tech world says BBCCapital A photo of a yearold Syrian man sitting in his destroyed bedroom went viral. Heres why via TIME In honor of PiDay heres how to make the perfect pie crust according to science. Via qz An Ohio teenager ran . miles to create the most adorable prom proposal. ABC reports Shoppers are being tracked while they browse in malls. Heres why via WSJ Snowed in today by StellaBlizzard Heres a guide on what to cook watch amp read via nytimes Get up to speed on what we know so far about the Republicans healthcare bill via washingtonpost Why great white sharks are becoming more common off the coast of Cape Cod via NatGeo Theyre changing how credit scores are calculated. Heres what that means for you via WSJ Get up to speed on The Bachelor before tonights big finale via people What exactly is the Congressional Budget Office and why is everyone talking about it Via voxdotcom Amy Krouse Rosenthal the terminally ill author who wrote a dating profile for her husband has died TIME reports Its time to fill out your March Madness bracket USATODAY has tips on winning your office pool Artificial intelligence is transforming the workplace influencing who gets hired amp who gets promoted. WSJ reports Are you a morning person That means youre probably also a healthier eater. thescienceofus explains Heres what to watch for in the business world this week via CNBC Cassette tapes are making a comeback. No really. WSJ explains Hasta la vista Senate seat. Arnold Schwarzenegger denies rumors hes running for Congress via vultue Learn how to improve your vacation photos earn more airline miles and more in this weeks travel guide Do you hate Daylight Saving Time Science has your back via Reuters How would Donald Trump handle an alien invasion SNL and Alec Baldwin have some ideas via ABC Form Donald Trump to Daylight Saving Time a look at the weekends top stories via nytimes After surgery the worlds heaviest man didnt just lose weight he lost almost everything. Story via GQMagazine Is California ready for selfdriving cars New regulations could open highways to robocars says WIRED With million people starving the UN says the world is facing a major humanitarian crisis in Africa. Via CNN The Trump administration asked DoJ prosecutors to resign. According to voxdotcom thats normal A dying woman wants her husband to find love. So she wrote this riveting nytimes essay about his best qualities Now in Weekend Reads Why social media is addictive Americas happiest city and the evolution of Emma Watson Is social media addictive Read how the promise of positive feedback has us hooked via guardian Do white evangelicals face more discrimination than Muslims They certainly think so. Story via TheAtlantic A gigantic statue of a powerful Egyptian pharaoh was found underwater in a Cairo slum NatGeo reports An eccentric millionaire hid buried treasure somewhere in the Rockies and voxdotcom sent two reporters to find it The Trump administration has asked Obamaera attorneys to leave the Justice Department ASAP. Via nytimes In the market for a new TV Make sure you understand these crucial terms before making your pick. Via TIME For a restful night avoid eating and drinking these foods before bedtime via FoodNetwork Were losing an hour of sleep this weekend and people really hate it. Heres why via MONEY It was a big week in celebrity news. Get up to speed on the buzziest Hollywood stories Here are of the biggest news stories to start off your Friday via USATODAY Take terrible vacation photos Improve your Instagram game with this step guide to better photos via WSJ Working from home can be delightful or distracting. Learn how to focus from the comfort of your couch via CNBC Notorious B.I.G. died years ago. Heres how his legacy continues to hypnotize hiphop today via CNN Chefauthorunderwear model Eddie Huang gets very real in this GQMagazine interview about well everything Would you pay to upgrade your jail cell LA offers private jails with perks like flatscreen TVs. Via latimes Get ready to spring forward this weekend. TIME explains how changing the clocks can affect your health Whats the happiest place in America SmithsonianMag has the results of a new study No politics here Take a break with these uplifting and inspiring stories O.J. Simpson could be released from jail as early as this fall TIME reports Heres what InternationalWomensDay looked like around the world via BuzzFeedNews RT THR Get the latest InternationalWomensDay news via THRs AppleNews channel follow here Gary from Chicago talks to THR about his unpredictable path from prison to the Oscars Want to earn the big bucks Here are the bestpaying jobs in the U.S. according to a new report. Via business How to eat healthy at a fast food chain why Americans are having less sex and more in this weeks health roundup Heres everything you need to know about InternationalWomensDay via voxdotcom Live in the city Its probably costing you. mic shows how much youd save by moving to the suburbs Some Bay Area commuters have found a cheaper alternative to Uber and Lyft carpool rides. Via WSJ Christians are turning to podcasts to say things they cant in church. NPR has more Today WikiLeaks released a large amount of alleged CIA documents. Heres what you need to know via qz The Obamacare overhaul is facing resistance from both sides of the aisle latimes reports These photos show the devastating effects of pollution on children. Via NatGeo Get up to speed on these important stories you may have missed via NewsHour Why are those adorable pandas black and white Biologists have a new theory. washingtonpost reports ID theft is no longer the No. fraud. Heres what you should be concerned about now via CBSNews Get the latest news on health care immigration and more in this morning briefing from nytimes Gilmore Girls could be coming back. Yes again. TIME has the details Trying to eat healthy at a fast food place Its NOT impossible. Here are your best options via FoxNews Take a look at the complicated history of Donald Trumps relationship with Barack Obama via washingtonpost Find out what caused Bill Paxtons shocking death last month via people Chrissy Teigen is opening up about her private battle with postpartum depression via HuffingtonPost Heres what you need to know about Donald Trumps revised travel ban via CNN Jobs jobs jobs CNBC prepares you for the week ahead with a look at whats on the Wall St news agenda Whats killing the famous swimming pigs in the Bahamas NatGeo investigates The oncedying art of cursive writing is making a comeback in schools via CBSNews Check out the new trailer for Deadpool courtesy of Ryan Reynolds. Via Complex Tricks to stop snacking the truth about how much pee is in pools and more in this weeks health amp fitness guide The White House wants Congress to investigate Trumps wiretapping claims. Heres the latest via nytimes See SNL turn Jeff Sessions into Forrest Gump via CNN Feast your eyes on the most compelling photos of the week in this gallery by NatGeo How did glutenfree diets go from rare treatment to trendy lifestyle CNN takes a look When bees pollinate food grows. And if they go extinct there goes our supply of cheap food. Story via VICE Without presenting evidence President Trump accused Obama of wire tapping his phones NPR reports Cant afford a pet Rent one. But be careful that chihuahuaweiner hybrid could ruin your credit. Via business Weekend Reads Why pets could ruin your credit the hunt for fake sugar and stories from solitary confinement Kendrick Lamar Beck and Tom Waits discuss one perennial question What makes someone creative Via tmagazine What should you expect from the GOPs Obamacare replacement bill voxdotcom lists things Arnold Schwarzenegger quit Celebrity Apprentice. He blames Donald Trump. Via VanityFair Uber used a secret tool to evade authorities in countries where they couldnt operate nytimes reports Nintendo launches its latest attempt to Switch up console gaming screen not always required. Via LATimes George W. Bush and Michelle Obama BFFs explained his fondness for the former First Lady via CNN After talking to the media a yearold DREAMer will be deported according to her attorney. Via HuffingtonPost Whats solitary confinement like Awful to say the least. GQMagazines natepenn spent a year talking to inmates A massive outage shutdown much of the Internet earlier this week. The cause A typo verge reports Do you brush your teeth before or after breakfast Learn which is better via Slate The accountants who handed out the wrong envelope will not be returning to next years Oscars VanityFair reports Life on earth might be older than we thought. Newly discovered fossils date back . billion years ago via NatGeo Democrats and Republicans saw two very different speeches last night from President Trump. Story via latimes Moonlights lush cinematography was partly influenced by Hong Kong director Wong Karwai. See a comparison via Ubers CEO was filmed arguing at times angrily with a driver about fare cuts. See video via business Heres why the Internet seemed slow today A flaw on Amazon Web Services shutdown multiple sites via voxdotcom Are you a worrywart Turns out being fretful is well nothing to worry about via WSJ Jimmy Kimmel explains that insane Oscars mixup and how Denzel Washington saved the day via VanityFair Whos behind all those White House leaks Donald Trump has a surprising theory via CNN Its Fat Tuesday Here are tips for whipping up perfect pancakes via extracrispy Donald Trump will address Congress tonight at p.m. Eastern. Heres what to expect via washingtonpost Still reeling from last nights mixup at the Oscars Get up to speed on the winners amp controversy. Watch the shocking moment when La La Land was mistakenly awarded Moonlights Best Picture win. Via voxdotcom Jimmy Kimmel brought a group of tourists into the Oscars and a star GaryFromChicago was born. Via VanityFair Viola Davis gives an emotional speech after winning Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her performance in Fence Jimmy Kimmels opening monologue at the Oscars was full of references to President Trump via dailymail Why are so many stars wearing blue ribbons at the Oscars THR explains Some schools have figured how to get kids to eat their veggies. Here are their tricks via WSJ Heres what you need to know about Tom Perez the new head of the DNC. Via ABC Its almost showtime Get up to speed on all the Oscar storylines before the ceremony starts at p.m. Eastern Witnesses describe the scene as a suspected drunk driver plowed into a Mardi Gras parade via washingtonpost You dont just age between and your entire personality changes. Thats according to a new study via qz Youll soon be able to fly from the U.S. to Europe for just . business has the details A veteran photographer tells VanityFair what its really like to be on the red carpet for the Academy Awards Not sleeping enough Find out why thats a big problem via TIME Heres what you need to know before the Oscars from wholl win big to how to throw the perfect viewing party Heres the biggest news of the day to start off your Friday morning via nytimes Check out these profiles of Oscar faves from big stars Denzel Washington and Emma Stone to breakout Mahershala Ali A fascinating look at how a hit team came together to kill North Koreas Kim Jong Nam via WSJ Heres what you need to know about Donald Trumps reversal on transgender bathrooms in schools via CNN Every year someone steals the show at the Oscars. Heres a rundown of the past MVPs via VanityFair Some of the worlds most frequent travelers reveal their tricks for surviving crazylong flights via business Take a behindthescenes look at how restaurants manage to keep reservations on schedule via WSJ Watch dads take a ballet class meet a girl who invented her own prosthetic arm amp more in todays dose of good news Is La La Land a shoein for Best Picture at the Oscars vox investigates Heres where things stand heading into day of the Trump administration via washingtonpost Here are some of the incredibly luxurious gifts given to Oscar nominees in swag bags. Via CNBC Why you shouldnt obsess about body fat the scientific truth about doubledipping and more in our health roundup Get up to speed on big decisions that are pending for President Trump and Republicans via NewsHour What happens when a language dies SmithsonianMag lists what we lose and why we should fight to keep them alive The first actor of Indian descent to get an Oscar nom was Merle Oberon. So why did she hide that fact Via mic Being funny at work is a good idea most of the time. WSJ outlines pros and cons of office humor Watch Emma Watson perform an iconic Beauty and the Beast song in a new clip of Disneys upcoming movie via TIME Group video chat has replaced hanging out inperson for Generation Z. WSJ reports on the phenomenon The Trump administration is revising its embattled travel ban. Here are key things to watch for via CNN Heres what you need to know about Donald Trumps new national security adviser via FortuneMagazine The secrets to filming La La Land in all those famous and notsofamous Los Angeles locations via VanityFair Ever wonder what its like to be Kim Kardashians personal emoji designer Well now you know via FastCompany Why DeleteUber is making a comeback via verge Jimmy Kimmel has big plans for hosting this years Oscars and they may result in him bombing miserably via THR Angelina Jolie opens up about her split from Brad Pitt and her familys difficult year via BBC Watch a woman make an incredible halfcourt shot...and then get a surprise marriage proposal. Via HuffingtonPost Get some inspiration for your next trip from these Oscarnominated films via NatGeo Trump has interviewed people for the job of national security adviser. WSJ has a detailed look at each candidate Here are things you need to know to get your PresidentsDay started via USATODAY A historic look at the role of first lady and why some have been reluctant to embrace the title via nytimes This is not a drill There is now a Golden Girlsthemed cafe vulture reports. And yes theres cheesecake Expect sweeping changes to Americas deportation policies reports washingtonpost Heres how to time your coffee consumption for the maximum caffeine boost via thescienceofus Wait what swedenincident A cryptic comment from Donald Trump has Twitter buzzing via TIME Ten trips to book before you have kids the surprising return of the travel agency and more in todays travel guid Donald Trump was back in campaign mode at a Florida rally on Saturday. Heres what he had to say via FoxNews Exmodels turned highend weed dealers deliver marijuana across Manhattan. Follow along via GQMagazine Right before Election Day a Russian diplomat was found dead. Who was he And how did he die Story via For days Star Trek fans go where no superfans have gone before a cruise ship. Step aboard via business What if you remembered everything guardian profiles people with hyperthymesia or superior autobiographical memor Are refugees coming or going Reuters spotted Sudanese immigrants escaping the U.S. to Canada Meet yearold Jordan Shes a Girl Scout does CrossFit and invented a glittershooting prosthetic arm. Via California is being hit with a bombogenesis one of the states biggest storms in over a decade. Via BBCWorld Now in Weekend Reads Why Ikea ruins relationships people who remember everything and a Star Trekthemed cruise The last days of Oliver Sacks the neuroscientistwriter are lovingly chronicled by BillHayesNYC via Does America really have third world airports as Trump claims politico says yes and theres a cure After her problematic performance Mariah Carey speaks about feeling victimized for her NYE performance via THR Profiled by GQMagazines zachbaron Conor McGregor is a nonstop quote machine who knows how to dress. And fight. Watching these dads do ballet with their daughters might be the best thing you see today. Via TIME Last year Americans couldnt wait to see Cuba. This year airlines cut service. What happened business reports What you missed at New York Fashion Week Kanye Wests show the return of the Hot Felon amp more Heres the biggest news of the day to start off your Friday morning via nytimes The dab is dead. The new move is nusretts salt bae WSJ reports Want to see a wooly mammoth in the flesh Meet the mammophant a wooly mammothelephant hybrid. Via guardian What would restaurants look like without immigrants SAVEURMAG reports on todays Day Without Immigrants protes President Donald Trumps marathon minute press conference was highly unusual. CNN explains what happened Heres what will happen if you dont file your tax return on time. Via YahooFinance A newly discovered page essay by Winston Churchill reveals what he thought about alien life. Story via verge Meet a golden retriever who hugs strangers learn secrets to living longer and more in todays dose of good news Less than a month into office President Trump has announced plans for a campaign rally. Details via CNN Meet Logan Everett the first boy doll from American Girl. Via FoxNews Doctors may be able to predict autism risk in babies as young as six months. TIME explains the new study Harrison Ford is under investigation by the FAA after another airplane mishap via NPR The latest victim of climate change Antarctic penguins. CBSNews has more on their sudden decline This roundup of creatures that can crawl into your body will horrify you. Via NatGeo Meet the German shepherd named Rumor after Adeles Rumor Has It who won best in show at Westminster. Via TIME How to make calories disappear a discovery that could help you run faster and more in our health amp fitness roundu Heres a look at who knew what and when about Michael Flynn and Russia. Via washingtonpost Why does shopping at IKEA cause some couples such grief A psychologist explains via thescienceofus Sikh temples near Lake Oroville opened their doors to evacuees offering shelter and food. Via CNN Astronomers found new planets including a super Earth and the possibility of more FoxNews reports Heres everything we know and dont know regarding Michael Flynns resignation via nytimes Barack and Michelle Obama trade sweet Valentines Day tweets via USATODAY Is running bad for your knees The answer may surprise you via TIME Heres how much it REALLY costs to own a pet via mic Melania Trump thanks Emily Ratajkowski for defending her against reporter via FoxNews How to decipher which flavor is which in a box of chocolates without taking a bite. Via epicurious Youre probably paying less for Valentines Day chocolate today. Heres why via MONEY ABC has named its first black Bachelorette after years. Story via THR Heres who might replace Michael Flynn as Trumps national security adviser. Via FortuneMagazine There are big changes ahead Americas top fortunecookie writer is stepping down after years via FoxNews Ten bucketlist trips you should take before you have kids via travelchannel Congrats Derek Jeter and his swimsuit model wife Hannah Davis are expecting their first child via SInow Mystified by your W Heres how to make sense of it and save money on your taxes. Via CNBC Did Adele REALLY break her Grammy in half to share with Beyonc VanityFair investigates Valentines Day is tomorrow so its the perfect time to start planning one of these romantic getaways. Via NatGeo A Netflix survey found a lot of bingewatchers are cheating on their significant others. Via USATODAY Here are the top stories you need to know this Monday morning via nytimes Adeles rollercoaster night Beyoncs stunning upset and all the most talkedabout moments from the Grammy Award If you cant sleep try camping. No smartphones allowed Via verge How do dogs get pumped up for Westminster Just like professional athletes. Via USATODAY Donald Trump responds to North Koreas ballistic missile test via cnn It was a big night for Hidden Figures and Fences at the annual NAACP Image Awards via latimes Melissa McCarthy returns as Sean Spicer on SNL and Alec Baldwins Trump heads to The Peoples Court via npr Heres what you need to know this morning from the latest on the travel ban to tonights Grammys via nytimes Each year health bros put on yoga pants and meet at an elite conference. Refinery investigates Justin Timberlake sold million albums won nine Grammys and stars in a Woody Allen movie. Whats next Via THR Trying to save money Avoid making these sneaky money mistakes on the weekend via mic Can Trump bring the price of the wall down from . billion He certainly thinks so via washingtonpost Read about the man who swam after his wife how Anna Nicole Smith went from Playmate to punchline and more A Texas woman voted illegally. Her punishment years in prison and almost certain deportation nytimes reports Always forgetting something Master this quick trick to remember almost anything via HuffingtonPost Rosie ODonnell wont be impersonating Steve Bannon on nbcsnl her representative confirmed to VanityFair Investigators confirmed parts of the Trump dossier but not the salacious details are true. Via washingtonpost Big night tonight full moon lunar eclipse AND a flying comet. Heres how to watch via TIME In a reversal the White House says it might still take the travel ban to the Supreme Court washingtonpost reports The incredible story of a foster father who only takes in terminally ill children. Via latimes Here are ways to avoid extra calories during the day. Dont worry you wont miss them. Via TIME Three directors of Oscarnominated films open up about their careers and the state of Hollywood via latimes Before using free taxreturn services this year heres what you should know. Story via WSJ What happens next with the Trump administrations travel ban CNN explains the possibilities Actor Vincent Kartheiser isnt fond of wasting space. See photos of his tiny tasteful Hollywood home via dwell Instead of wallowing in defeat Democrats are fighting fiercely and taking cues from the Tea Party. Via axios After being in the US for years an Arizona woman was deported and her kids want to know why. Story via TIME What does Trumps wall need billion and years according to a Homeland Security report obtained by Reuters Want to look sexy Youre dancing all wrong via PopSci lts Beyonc vs. Adele And everything else you need to know about the Grammys this Sunday Did Kellyanne Conway break an ethics rule by promoting Ivanka Trumps clothing line washingtonpost investigates Rejoice Its National Pizza Day Heres how to get deals on melty cheesy goodness via FoxNews What Democrats have learned from the Tea Party via axios Forget the fancy wedding china. Couples preparing to say I do can now register at Dominos Pizza. Via USATODAY Madonna makes it official The pop star confirms she has adopted twin girls from Malawi. Story via Refinery This weekend you can spot a lunar eclipse a full snow moon and a comet flyby. Get the details via Its been another whirlwind week of news. Take a break with this roundup of uplifting stories. The story of Anna Nicole Smith is a true American tragedy. BuzzFeedNews reports on her dramatic rise and fall See the heartbreaking devastation caused by the New Orleans tornado up close via HuffingtonPost Everyday Donald Trump dominates the headlines. Here are the most important things he did today via axios Tom Hiddleston is a normal guy loves a good book cooks a mean bolognese and dated Taylor Swift. Via GQMagazine Heres how much people are expected to spend on Valentines Day. Hint Its in the billions. Via FortuneMagazine A dog food has been recalled due to possible contamination with a pet euthanasia drug. CBSNews has the details What science says about our love for pets how drones won the Super Bowl and more in our tech amp science roundup Get the latest on the status of Trumps travel ban including when we can expect a court ruling. Via TIME Hows life for Obama Pretty good he went kiteboarding recently with Richard Branson. See video on CNN Where does hot sauce come from NatGeo visited Bolivia to find hot sauce in its purest most ancient form Its hard keeping up with Donald Trump. Here are the most important Trump things to know today via axios New Orleans declared a state of emergency after tornadoes struck the city causing heavy damage. FoxNews reports Do you really need to use so much hand sanitizer Refinery investigates Now hear this A study finds that one quarter of adults have hearing loss from everyday noise via washingtonpost Jamie Lynn Spears daughter Maddie has regained consciousness after her devastating ATV accident via people Heres what you need to know about tonights hearing on Trumps travel ban via CNN Your mattress could be sabotaging your sleep. Heres how to tell and how to fix it via chicagotribune How long do eggs last in your fridge extracrispy investigates House flipping is making a return to real estate markets. But there are some big risks. CNBC explains Did you know your taxes arent due on April this year Story via MONEY Get up to speed on these important news stories you may have missed via NewsHour Dont wash your water bottle after every use Theres a whole lot of germs on there. Via HuffingtonPost Queen Elizabeth is celebrating years on the throne. Heres a look at her reign in numbers via TIME On the heels of her Super Bowl halftime show Lady Gaga announces a world tour. Via EW Get up to speed on the legal hurdles that Trumps immigration ban is facing via CNN Still recovering from the Super Bowl Here are all the top moments from the historic comeback to the mustsee ads The Patriots win a thriller defeating Atlanta in the first Super Bowl to ever end in overtime via nytimes Vacation dreaming Check out this list of the best swimup bars in the world via travelchannel You need to see Melissa McCarthys impersonation of press secretary Sean Spicer via voxdotcom Trump defends Putin in new interview asking You think our countrys so innocent Via CNN Vice President Mike Pence vows to defend travel ban with all legal means at our disposal via FoxNews Like the Super Bowl only cuter. Heres everything you need to know about todays Puppy Bowl via voxdotcom Who won the war between Silicon Valley and Hollywood Consumers. Learn how tech is changing the way we see movies Minimalism is overrated. Evidence suggests that letting go making a mess losing control is good for you Each week NatGeo features amazing photography that tells a story. Here are mustsee images from around the worl At any Super Bowl party guy will eat of the guacamole. GQMagazine profiles the remaining partygoers Is Iran preparing for war WSJ reports the country is carrying out military drills Now in Weekend Reads the death of Hollywood the lifechanging magic of being messy and more The State Department will reinstate thousands of revoked visas following orders from a federal judge CNN reports Snapchat filed a billion IPO yesterday. Here are the most interesting things about that via washingtonpost Do you hate noisy eaters TIME explains your pet peeve Judging by this years Oscar nominees Hollywood is more in touch with modern America. Story via voxdotcom The Pentagon released a video of the Yemen raid. The only problem It was from a decade ago BuzzFeedNews reports Emma Stone talks to THR about her battle with shyness where her trademark red hair comes from and more Heres a comprehensive guide on what you can do during the day to help you sleep better at night via TIME A Dutch zoo is hoping an orangutan can meet her mate digitally through Tinder for orangutans. Via washingtonpost Cant decide which Super Bowl team to root for TheAtlantic has a guide to help you pick before Sundays big game What to bingewatch this month saying goodbye to Girls and more in this weeks top TV amp movie news Heres the biggest news you need to start your day via nytimes There is life after Top Chef. See what the shows most successful chefs are doing today via TastingTable As if you needed here are reasons to eat dark chocolate everyday via HuffingtonPost Will Lady Gaga make a political statement at the Super Bowl Her coy answer suggests she might USATODAY reports Baltimore is being dismantled brick by brick. Is demolition destroying the citys history washingtonpost reports Trump called the USAustralia refugee deal dumb. Is he right TheAtlantic investigates Tiny houses are all the rage on TV and in the real estate market. But they do have their drawbacks via CNBC The hilarious NFL Bad Lip Reading series is back just in time for the Super Bowl. Enjoy via TIME Beyonc unveiled her full maternity photoshoot and its as gloriously overthetop as youd expect via people Get used to the cold. Punxsutawney Phil predicts six more weeks of winter. Via CBSNews Spending too much time on social media Follow these tips from WSJ to break away Get excited Krispy Creme is giving away free doughnuts for three whole weeks. Via MONEY You can stop wasting time in office meetings by following these six guidelines. Via qz This month you can watch a lunar eclipse the sun become a ring of fire and more. NatGeo has the cosmic lineup Heres where things stand heading into day of the Trump administration via washingtonpost As Girls enters its last season the cast overshares an oral history of the shows beginnings via THR Think mood lighting and margaritas thinkTaco Bell Theyre opening a swank NYC speakeasy TastingTable reports Is there a hidden continent Scientists say a major landmass lurks beneath the island of Madagascar. Via FoxNews Beyonces pregnancy announcement was quite creative. Meet the artist who took her beautiful portrait via thefader This creepylooking sea creature could be the earliest human ancestor via smithsonian Kim amp Kanye get into the childrens fashion game. See daughter North model some of the pieces via people Planning your next getaway Youll want to take a dip in one of these AMAZING spots for a swim via HuffingtonPost Hillary Clinton will discuss her election loss in a new book this fall via THR Four incredibly simple financial moves you should make this month via MONEY Surprise Beyonc and Jay Z are expecting twins. See the amazing announcement via DailyMail Experts say eating well isnt just about WHAT you eat but also WHEN you eat. Story via TIME How scientists created a humanpig hybrid the secret about hotel thermostats amp more in our science and tech roundu What happens now that Trump has made his Supreme Court pick NPR explains the process Your biological clock is definitely ticking. NatGeo explains how time rules our bodies and our social lives A new bill might put million acres of public land including national parks up for sale guardian reports Youve heard of man caves but she sheds Women are finding escape close to home but far from stress via WSJ Who is Neil Gorsuch Learn where Trumps Supreme Court nominee stands on controversial issues via voxdotcom It has begun extracrispy reports that avocados were turned away from the USMexico border. Is guacamole safe These are the best cities to drink in according to NatGeo. Cheers Its a shakeup in Gotham City Ben Affleck backs out of directing the Batman movie via verge These stories got lost in the shuffle this week and all deserve a second look via NewsHour Oprah is coming back to network TV. Heres what to know about her new Minutes gig via CBSNews These are the victims of the Quebec mosque attack via BuzzFeedNews Watch the magical trailer Disney just released for Beauty and the Beast via TIME Why do people pay SO much to exercise business investigates Meet the new breeds that will compete at this years Westminster dog show via BuzzFeedNews What are executive orders and are there limits to a presidents authority to issue them TheEconomist explains Heres what you need to know about the frontrunners for Trumps Supreme Court pick via ABC The father of PacMan Masaya Nakamura has died at age via BBC How exercise makes your brain more flexible along with your body. Via thescienceofus The secret ingredient in everything from pizza dough to Oreo cake It might be antacid. No really. WSJ explains In a hurry This robot barista has your coffee needs covered via USATODAY Donald Trump will announce his nominee for the Supreme Court tomorrow at p.m. CNN reports Bucket list trips dont have to cost a fortune. travelchannel has tips on how to use points miles amp deals IKEA wants more people to hack its furniture so its going to roll out an opensource sofa. Via WSJ Research shows more than one in three of you have already ditched your New Years resolutions. Via MarketWatch Political speeches dominated last nights SAGAwards. latimes has the highlights Heres a quick primer on what you need to know about Trumps executive order on immigration via CNN Are you addicted to checking your email CNN explains why Drew Barrymore eats people. And everything else you need to know about the Santa Clarita Diet via verge Heres what foreign leaders had to say about Donald Trumps refugee ban via BuzzFeedNews The White House may ask foreign visitors to cough up their social media info and cell phone contacts via CNN Roger Federer defeated Rafael Nadal to take the Australian Open. But tennis fans were the real winners via WSJ The White House now says Green Card holders will NOT be barred from returning under ban via nytimes Donald Trump defends his travel ban amid uproar via washingtonpost Filmmaker Asghar Farhadi is up for an Oscar. Because hes Iranian he cant attend the ceremony. Via voxdotcom An apple that never turns brown Read about the evolution of genetically modified foods via washingtonpost Each year nearly migrants pass through Mexico. In one border town share two toilets. nytimes reports The immigration ban has left many stranded including an Iranian scientist and a Syrian family of six. Via nytimes In just one week Trump has issued a staggering number of executive orders. Heres what you need to know via CBSNews Now in Weekend Reads The bizarre story of the Bastille Day attacker why Uber drivers sleep in cars and more Who was the original inspiration for Uncle Sam A thcentury clown according to SmithsonianMag What kind of music helps dogs chill out Reggae or soft rock says washingtonpost Over two months CNNs edlavaCNN traveled the USMexico border looking at life on the migrants trail After freezing refugee applications from Muslim nations Trump promises to prioritize Christians. Via CNN Whats almost as important as exercising Joining a gym and going regularly. TIME reports that consistency is key Does the temperature in your hotel room feel off The thermostat is not under your control WSJ reports Salmon is about to get more expensive. And the reason why is pretty gross via washingtonpost Heres some good news nearly half of California is droughtfree. Story via latimes Hours after suggesting a tax on Mexican imports the White House is taking it back. Story via CNN Whether or not theres a wall Mexico has become a worldclass travel destination with soul. GQMagazine has a guid Meet America Chavez Marvels Beyoncinspired Latina superhero via mic Traveling soon Extreme weather has grounded many flights. Heres how your plans might change. Via CNTraveler Nominated for Oscars La La Land almost didnt get made. Story via qz Whats the correlation between alternative facts and Sales of the book are soaring via FortuneMagazine Whole wheat and whole grain bread is healthy right Not exactly. TIME explains Inside Donald Trumps tumultuous first few days in the White House via washingtonpost Oops. ABC apologizes to Tom Hanks and Amy Adams for mistakenly indicating theyd been nominated for Oscars. Via EW La La Land scores Oscar nominations tying Titanic and All About Eve for the most ever via USATODAY Heres what President Trumps executive orders can accomplish and what they cant. Via CNN Uber drivers are setting up camp in parking lots across the U.S. when its too pricey to go home. business reports Could this Bachelor season be the raunchiest ever See what critics are saying via FoxNews Winter weather got you down This natgeo list of the best beaches in the world will have you dreaming of summer Star Wars Episode VIII finally has an official title reports CNN. And its... Alec Baldwin will host SNL for a recordsetting th time on Feb. via TIME Try these tricks to make a bad wine taste better via WSJ Feel guilty for taking a vacation Dont youve earned it. Here are five ways to take more time off this year Were yesterdays marches the birth of a movement latimes looks at the challenges facing the antiTrump coalition Aziz Ansari takes on Trump and casual white supremacists in his opening monologue for SNL via CBSNews Get up to speed on the cakegate controversy surrounding Donald Trumps inauguration confection via nytimes Its Championship Sunday Heres everything you need to know about todays playoffs matchups via CNN While you were sleeping topranked Andy Murray got knocked out of the Australian Open via USATODAY Whats it like for Donald Trump inside the White House bubble washingtonpost takes a look Rapper actor writer comedian what cant donaldglover do WIRED profiles a truly stcentury renaissance man Time to escape From the cold that is. travelchannel lists close to home warmweather hideaways The DOJ cleared Jared Kushner Donald Trumps soninlaw to serve as the Presidents advisor The line between man and animal is blurring. Learn how biologists harvest cells to form new beings. Via BBCEarth Canadians at the US border were asked if they supported Trump. Some were denied entry. guardian reports The WomensMarch has gone global. See photos of women around the world coming together via washingtonpost Need a good read Learn how personality changes see lost footage of Marilyn Monroe and more in Weekend Reads If you die in space what happens to your body PopSci investigates Women are flying into D.C. to protest Trump. Will their message translate to a diverse audience Via voxdotcom Entire pages arent disappearing from the White House website BuzzFeedNews reports. Theyre being rebuilt For eight years PeteSouza took photos a day of the Obamas. GQMagazine asked about his favorite shots President Obamas final call as president was made to Angela Merkel. TIME has the details Three women from across the U.S. tell BuzzFeedNews why theyre joining the Womens March on Washington Heres a rundown of the government secrets that will be revealed to President Trump via politico Read the full text of President Trumps InaugurationDay speech here. Via USATODAY Here are Donald Trumps final words of his InaugurationDay speech In his inaugural address President Donald Trump said his election marks a shift in power InaugurationDay Watch live via CNN Donald Trump to be sworn in as the next president of the United States This is what it was like inside the final hours of the Obama White House via TIME Heres what to expect on Donald Trumps InaugurationDay via washingtonpost Whats the rudest thing people do on planes See the response plus others via CNTraveler It takes more than two guys and a truck to move a new president into the White House. Story via nytimes Why are cows being fed candy CNN reports on an unusual story that started with Skittles and ended on a farm What does money smell like exactly One chemist thinks hes figured it out. Story via WSJ The worlds primates are in serious trouble More than half are at risk of extinction a study found. Via USATODAY Will NBCs reboot of Will amp Grace succeed vulture has some theories As Barack Obamas presidency comes to a close take a look back at his achievements struggles amp memorable moments Billy Eichner is the bold and brash host of a truTV show thats part comedy part cultural criticism. Via vulture Airlines are offering cheaper plane tickets as long as you dont mind some inconveniences via HuffingtonPost A year later Flint residents still need a filter to drink tap water. TIME shows where things stand today How did Trump create his Make America Great Again slogan Read a history of the famous phrase via Senator BernieSanders isnt just a politician. Hes a fashion icon. GQMagazine reports on his rise to the runway President Obama will leave office Friday with his highest approval rating since a new CNN poll finds Cancel unused subscriptions. Come up with a side hustle. Here are ways to boost your finances on a lunch break. Bring on the hot peppers Scientists say eating them could prolong your life. Via thescienceofus Ahead of Donald Trumps inauguration WSJ reports that some of his supporters have mixed feelings Obama commutes Chelsea Mannings sentence. Confirmation hearings continue. Here are todays top stories via CNN Gold Jerry gold Jerry Seinfeld brings two standup specials plus a popular web series to Netflix via THR If youve ever wanted an NBA jersey nows the best time to buy one or three. WSJ says theyre getting expensive Feel guilty for taking a vacation Dont youve earned it. Here are five ways to take more time off via nytimes One of the last unexplored places on earth the Mariana Trench is ft. undersea and full of life. Via NatGeo Heres the best way to get ketchup out of the bottle according to science. Via FoodNetwork When does the inauguration start USATODAY has a complete schedule of events Happy birthday Betty White Shes and still cooler than most of us. Via HuffingtonPost Heres why GainingWeightIsCool is trending today via people Meet the men who control as much wealth as roughly . billion people. Via CBSNews Peek behind the curtain of inauguration events to see how much they cost and whos paying. Via nytimes The nearly year hunt for missing MH flight has ended leaving the aviation mystery unsolved. business reports The latest on Trumps transition from inauguration boycotts to the next confirmation hearings. Via washingtonpost How books helped Barack Obama stay grounded during his years in the White House via nytimes Ever wonder what a frozen lake sounds like Now you know via verge Here are easy ways to overhaul your finances in via USATODAY Warm up this winter with these updated takes on the classic hot toddy via FoodNetwork Peek inside the recently closed Morbid Anatomy Museum. Its creepy and totally fascinating. Via NatGeo Heres how Donald Trump is marking MLKDay via nytimes TopStories Trump vows to replace Obamacare with insurance for everybody exclusive via washingtonpost As Lemony Snicket heads to Netflix here are the biggest changes from the books via voxdotcom Are you brushing and flossing but STILL getting cavities Your genes may be to blame via WSJ Monster Trucks crashed and burned at the box office this weekend. GQ asks how it got made in the first place Busy day yesterday Heres what you missed in the NFL playoffs via CBSNews The end of an era Ringling Bros. circus is closing after years via washingtonpost Luxurious trends to inspire your trips how to fly with your pup and more in our roundup of the best in trave Donald Trumps inauguration countdown marking MLK Day and more heres what you need to know today via nytimes How did a former drug addict devise a multimilliondollar idea about pillows In his dreams. Story via business Say howdy to the last great Cowboy. GQMagazine profiles legendary Dallas Cowboys QB Troy Aikman Will Mark Zuckerberg run for office Facebooks founder has hired Obamas former campaign manager CNN reports Moving from hedge funds to hot chocolate Bernie Madoff is turning profits in prison. Story via MarketWatch What did aliens mariachi music and Bob Dylan have to do with David Bowie See that story and more in weekend read Victoria a new miniseries about the British monarch casts the queen in a very modern light. Via TheAtlantic See inside a French villa that belonged to Stanley Kubrick the enigmatic director of The Shining via Inspired by thcentury painters a cartographer is turning aerial images of earth into abstract art. Via NatGeo Lost footage of Marilyn Monroes fluttering dress in color no less has been found. Story via nytimes Sugar has become dietary enemy No. but is it to blame for our obesity epidemic voxdotcom explains the debate Nintendo has finally revealed everything you want to know about its new device the Switch. CNET has the details Another Friday the th is upon us. Find out where our fear of the day comes from via NatGeo Get the latest on Brangelinas divorce the Kim Kardashian robbery case amp more in our roundup of celebrity news The Bush twins penned a letter of advice in TIME to the Obama sisters. Read it here With days to go until Trumps inauguration washingtonpost recaps the latest on his transition When you think architecture does Tijuana come to mind Architects there are building beautiful homes. Via dwell One couple turned in savings into million. CNBC explains how This bodybuilder swears by chocolate cake. See why plus the rest of his reallife diet in GQMagazine A tearful Joe Biden received a big surprise today from President Obama the Medal of Freedom. CNN has video Terrified for his family the exspy responsible for the Trump dossier has gone into hiding nytimes reports From returning favorites to promising newbies heres a list from Complex of the years most anticipated TV shows Just how smart are horses NPR reports on a new study Heres how the permanent White House staff will welcome the new first family via TIME These videos of cookies being iced are oddly mesmerizing and totally addictive via BuzzFeedNews WATCH Michelle Obama surprises supporters on the The Tonight Show and the tears really flow. Via VanityFair Those famous overwater bungalows are now a LOT closer than Bora Bora. Your next vacation is calling. Via When do people finally outgrow IKEA furniture Heres what experts say via people Why you dont have to exercise every day easy changes to your eating habits amp more in this weeks health roundup The Internet is riveted by Jude Laws portrayal of His Holiness in the new HBO show The Young Pope. Via vulture You can fly to Europe for WOW. No thats the name of the airline wowair. TIME has more The story of the Trump dossier involves secret sources spies and.Senator John McCain Via guardian Maybe steer clear of salmon for dinner. Tapeworms have been found in four species of Pacific salmon via CNN Whos responsible for the dossier of unverified allegations about Trump A former British spy WSJ reports Choosing the best credit card the true cost of raising a child and more in this weeks personal finance roundup After surgeries one man with a rare disease can finally see his hands. Story via washingtonpost Find out what to expect at todays confirmation hearing for Trumps secretary of state pick via Reuters Here are key moments that stood out from Obamas farewell address via CBSNews Who knows Beyonce better than sister Solange The musical siblings interviewed each other. voxdotcom has more In an emotional goodbye Obama called for unity. See clips and read WSJs analysis of the presidents parting word At his confirmation hearing Senator Jeff Sessions took a stance on immigration race and Hillary Clinton. Via qz Classified documents allege that Russia has compromising information about Presidentelect Trump. Via CNN Watch Live President Obama says farewell in his final speech to the nation via CBSNews Last call at Starbucks The coffee chain will stop selling alcohol at more than locations via FoxNews Sorry Shondaland fans. Youll have to wait a little longer for Greys Scandal and HTGAWM. Via EW La La Land dances away with BAFTA nominations but faces some stiff competition. Via guardian After months of public sparring Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie agree to settle their divorce privately. Via TIME New Yorks famous JFK airport needs a lot of work billion worth. business reports on the daunting project Its official The stars of HGTVs Flip or Flop have pulled the plug on their marriage via people Before Obama gives his farewell address tonight in Chicago NPR takes a look back at the tradition The latest on Trumps transition Jared Kushners new role confirmation hearings and more. Via washingtonpost Relax. You dont have to work out every day. TIME reports on a new study Why this week is incredibly important and incredibly busy for the incoming Trump administration via NPR Winter is here and its not messing around. USATODAY reports that theres currently snow in of the states Donald Trump calls Meryl Streep overrated after her Golden Globes speech via CNN This is what it was like for a photographer from NatGeo to go snorkeling with President Obama Get started planning your vacations early this year with these undertheradar cities via TastingTable La La Land won big. Meryl got political. Heres a look at the most buzzedabout moments from the Golden Globes. Confirmation hearings for Trumps Cabinet picks begin this week. Heres what you need to know via washingtonpost Note to everyone at the GoldenGlobes There is no movie called Hidden Fences. Via nytimes Well that didnt take long. Jimmy Fallon opens up the GoldenGlobes with a few digs at Donald Trump via EW Break out the caftans and serve up the cheesecake The Golden Girls is coming to Hulu via vulture Get a behindthescenes look at Bright Lights the new documentary on Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds via THR Sorry folks but your new fitness tracker cant make you magically healthier via USATODAY Who will win todays NFL playoff matchups SInow offers up some predictions Get ready for tonights Golden Globes with this handy cheat sheet Heres the latest on Trumps transition the Fort Lauderdale shooting and more. Via nytimes A child is murdered once a week in Chicago. CNN investigates the epidemic of gun violence terrorizing the city Department stores are dying. See how their disappearance is reshaping modern malls via nytimes Do Republicans trust Putin more than Democrats One Russian official thinks so. CNN reports A severe storm hits California this weekend. Meteorologists expect the worst flooding in decades via USATODAY Are you ready for some football Our NFL playoffs preview has all the info you need for the weekends big games Our picks for weekend reading planning a perfect trip the dirtiest things we touch and TV shows for You can finally see a star explodein . Prepare to see the brilliant blast with your naked eye via NatGeo Tearfully breaking her silence KimKardashian spoke about being robbed Kanyes hospitalization amp more. Via CNN Should you drink beer in the shower GQMagazine knguyen says sure. But not like this Speaking with voxdotcom Obama says hes fine with repealing Obamacareprovided its replaced with something bette The Virgin Islands will pay you to vacation there. Yes you read that correctly. mic explains Meet Jackie Evancho who will perform the national anthem for Trumps inauguration. Via USATODAY When you call customer service the person answering the phone might know a whole lot about you. WSJ reports These are the dirtiest things youre touching every day...and your toilet seat is not one of them. Via TIME Your Golden Globes cheat sheet Who will win storylines to keep an eye on and more There are days until Donald Trumps inauguration. Heres what you need to know via washingtonpost Did a fire onboard sink the Titanic A new theory is gaining steam via SmithsonianMag The country is dividedby their favorite Netflix shows. This map shows what each state watches via GQMagazine Doula is Greek for womens servant. But many of todays doulas as BuzzFeedNews found are making millions In Mexico a gas hike led to protests looting and the death of one police officer. CNN reports Sea Worlds controversial Orca shows are ending in California this weekend via NatGeo Why being Miss Golden Globe is harder than it looks. Hint Blame the drunk movie stars Via THR Scientists explain why the fight against Zika is hitting a dead end via WSJ Seriously people put down the Qtips. Via USATODAY will be another year of big changes for travelers. WSJ rounds up the trends to watch On a mission to score Hamilton tickets this year mic has some suggestions Its time to rethink what you know about preventing peanut allergies. Here are the new guidelines via CBSNews Heres the latest on what to know about Trumps transition days before the inauguration. Via washingtonpost A yearold Frenchman set a world cycling recordand hes waiting for a rival. Story via CBSNews Do you have Obamacare Whether or not it gets repealed heres what you need to do right now. Via MONEY Bernie Sanders brought a postersized Donald Trump tweet to the Senate floor. Even Ted Cruz had a laugh via VICE The owner of the Coachella festival donated money to antigay and anticlimate change groups TeenVogue reports Mariah Carey breaks her silence on her horrible New Years Eve performance via CNN Hate your boss Science may have an explanation via CNBC Why Megyn Kelly could face big challenges at NBC via THR The inspiring tale of how one man found an unlikely cure for his stutter while pursuing his dream job. Via Heres what NOT to do when writing an email if you want to get a response. Via qz RT BuzzFeedNews You can now get BuzzFeedNews notifications in AppleNews Meet the Hawaiian retiree who inspired the Womens March on Washington. Via washingtonpost Heres what you need to know to get your day started via CNN Love red wine but not the hangovers Heres how to enjoy your next glass minus the headaches. Via HuffingtonPost Its a boy Say hello to Eissa singer Janet Jacksons first and only child. Via people Talk about the munchies Americans eat million Jack in the Box tacos a yearand nobody knows why. Via WSJ Coachella looks really really ridiculously good. TIME has the full lineup Both Bill and Hillary Clinton have confirmed they will attend Presidentelect Trumps inauguration. CNN has more Meet the adorable specialneeds dogs who are competing in this years Puppy Bowl via USATODAY Megan Kelly is leaving Fox News for NBC. Heres what that means for her and the networks via washingtonpost Do you know what CRISPR is You will soon. Here are seven reasons why via voxdotcom Get excited book lovers. Here are eagerly anticipated literary releases of via vulture A Sister Wives star comes out as gay see her familys reaction via people You wont believe this video of a yearold saving his twin brother from under a fallen dresser via USATODAY Didnt get away for the holidays and need a winter escape Warm up in Southeast Asia. Via travelchannel Heres how Arnold Schwarzenegger is firing people on The New Celebrity Apprentice. Via HuffingtonPost Theres plenty to look forward to in pop culture this year. voxdotcom previews projects in TV music amp more A new Congress convenes today. Heres a cheat sheet of key things to watch via nytimes Millions of us make NYE resolutions well never keep. PopSci says your brain is holding you backbut theres hope Donald Trump seems more comfortable holding court at MaraLago his Florida retreat. Story via nytimes Devastated by Carrie Fishers death Mark Hamill opens up about their on and offscreen relationship. Via ABC Months after their altercation at a Trump rally two different Americans find forgiveness. Via washingtonpost Very few get rich overnight. However plenty of people build wealth with practical advice like this via mic Not into fireworks SmithsonianMag has tips for catching tonights comet Before breaking out the bubbly heres why you shouldnt use a champagne flute via qz According to thescienceofus true happiness comes from finding meaning in your life For better or worse the world changed in . Revisit groundbreaking stories that defined the year Are the Clintons gone for good politico investigates how Hillarys loss spelled the end for Clintonism Lindsay Lohan wrote a script for Mean Girls and shes praying Tina Fey will read it. Via VanityFair If youre taking pictures this NYE follow this stepbystep guide to fantastic fireworks photos from NatGeo How did marijuana legalization affect teenagers in Washington state Spoiler not much. Story via washingtonpost In many of the biggest viral fake news stories were about politics. BuzzFeedNews takes a closer look states will increase their minimum wage next month. WSJ asked workers and employers for their perspectives Being overweight isnt just a health risk. Its also bad for your brain. Via NPR Grab jackets earmuffs and anything else to keep warm business reports the new year will be freezing Break out the toolbox. House flipping is back in style as housing prices soar via WSJ really is longer than . Heres why were getting an extra leap second this year via voxdotcom Raise a glass. Or at least a plastic cup. The inventor of the red Solo cup has died. Heres his story via CNN A look back at the rise of Donald Trump and the presidential race that surprised almost everyone What you need to know and were embarrassed to ask about the U.N. vote on Israeli settlements via voxdotcom Is it possible grieving Debbie Reynolds died of a broken heart Medical experts weigh in via USATODAY When it comes to Russian hacking Donald Trump says we ought to get on with our lives via Reuters Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher A look at their extraordinary lives in pictures. Via BuzzFeedNews Donald Trump says hell punish companies that produce overseas. What does that mean for Ivanka Via nytimes The experts say this technology just might change your life in . Story via WSJ A parental nightmare. Literally. One girl used her sleeping moms thumbprint to buy in toys. Via USATODAY A look back at the years biggest food trends and some predictions for whatll be hot in . Hint Smores was a year political pundits would rather forget. A look at the predictions they got very wrong via politico The best and worst ads of via WSJ. Yes puppymonkeybaby is on the list. Remembering Carrie Fisher a Hollywood force to be reckoned with. Via washingtonpost John Kerrys speech on Israel Americas nuclear future and everything else you need to know today via nytimes If youre in the SF Bay Area keep an eye out for a foottall Hanukkah menorah. Its been stolen. Via SFGate Trump has picked cabinet members who differ with his stance on waterboarding climate change and more. WSJ reports More bad news for African wildlife The cheetah population is in rapid decline. Details via guardian Todays event at Pearl Harbor with President Obama and Japanese PM Shinzo Abe was years in the making. Via qz Breaking Carrie Fisher revered for her role as Princess Leia in the Star Wars films dies at . Via voxdotcom From clean energy to a shark that lives for centuries here are some of s biggest science amp tech breakthroughs Buy online return in person. Read about the trend that has retailers hoping for new sales this week via WSJ Does keeping a gratitude journal really improve your physical amp mental health npr on the science of gratitude In an interview with CNN President Obama says he could have won in this years election if he was eligible to run Watch George Michael appear in the first ever Carpool Karaoke with JKCorden. Story via HuffingtonPost From shocking splits Brangelina to fiery feuds Taylor Swift v. Kimye heres the years biggest celebrity news Pop star George Michael passed away today at age . Elton John and other artists paid tribute via thefader A family tragedy gives Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr a voice in issues beyond basketball. Via nytimes From pig roasts to motorcycle rallies and more a look at how the world celebrates the holidays via WSJ The Pope called for peace in Syria and criticized idolatry of money in his Christmas address via Reuters A Russian military plane headed to Syria has crashed killing all people on board. Details via washingtonpost Got a new gadget Teach yourself the latest tech with a guide to the best gadgets games and apps of Looking for your next great read nytimes critics weigh in on the years best books One business food editor reflects on the most delicious dishes she enjoyed this year with pictures of course During a tumultuous these provocative photos from NatGeo captured hearts and minds The Best and Tastiest of Take a look back at the years extraordinary eats mustwatch TV and more Ready to catch up on TV over the holidays CBSNews says these are the shows you should bingewatch Despite a series of highprofile crashes was actually one of the safest years to fly reports CNTraveler What these students did for a retiring teacher will immediately warm your heart. Via BuzzFeedNews From a googlyeyed sea creature to a ghost shark watch these best videos of firsts in . Via NatGeo As we near years end CBSNews looks at the stories that will have a lasting impact into Retailers are pulling out all the stops to attract lastminute holiday shoppers. Heres what to expect via WSJ The biggest news today Berlin suspect killed by police Trump tweets on national defense amp more. Via nytimes How did whales go from fourlegged landlubbers to marine mammals TheAtlantic dives into an evolutionary mystery From Scientology to Taylor Swift and the dissolution of Brangelina TheCut gathers the biggest celeb gossip of In need of holiday cheer Steer clear of these traditional American Christmas stories says qz Are you a skeptical adult seeking seasonal advice GQMagazine explains how to deal with getting bad gifts Sixteen scone recipes youll want to make during your holiday break via DelishDotCom Check out the years best adventure photos from NatGeo. Warning May cause major FOMO Bill Murray pranked Chrissy Teigen in the most unexpected way via USATODAY Alex Trebek pays tribute to Jeopardy contestant who died before her shows aired. Story via TIME In a year of great television vulture says these rookie shows stood out from the rest Is the lastminute holiday frenzy stressing you out Follow these tips from CBSNews to recharge From Prince to Muhammad Ali take a look back at the celebrities leaders and visionaries we lost in Get up to speed on the biggest news to start your day via USATODAY Just when you couldnt love Neil Patrick Harris any more he goes and raps from Hamilton. Via HuffingtonPost First the avocado shortage and now this Dairies are reportedly running low on eggnog via WSJ Are you permanently scarring your kids by lying to them about Santa Psychologists weigh in via washingtonpost Lena Dunham apologizes for her abortion comment after backlash. Story via USATODAY These festive punch recipes are guaranteed to have you feeling the holiday cheer in no time via HuffingtonPost Amy Schumer bought back the farm her family lost in bankruptcy and surprised her dad with the news. Via CNN The percentage of young Americans living with their parents hit a year high. WSJ explains the trend Why telling people youre so busy has become a badge of honor in our alwayson world. Via washingtonpost Twoheaded sharks. A spider with an internal disco ball. Here are the years weirdest animal stories via NatGeo What you need to know today from a huge explosion in Mexico City to Obamas offshore drilling ban. Via CNN Tomorrow is the shortest day of the year. Heres what you need to know about winter solstice via voxdotcom Its shopping season and the temptation to Instagram your picturesque purchase is strong says Refinery For TheAtlantic writer tanehisicoates talks politics media and blackand whiteAmerica with President Obama Have we finally found an HIV vaccine Not quitebut scientists say this drug could be a big help via BuzzFeedNews How to teach your kids to be generous this holiday season via CNBC Dear procrastinators Here are easy food and drink gifts you can whip up in no time via washingtonpost What can be done to prevent Berlinstyle attacks on public gatherings guardian investigates Meet the Klingon Newt and other newly discovered species Via FoxNews Heres why you wait until the last minute to buy holiday gifts and what to do about it. Via MONEY Get a head start on reading the books that are coming to the big screen in . Via HuffingtonPost A Jeopardy contestant who died before her shows aired won her fifth game in an episode last night. Via CNN Heres everything you need to know about Mondays attack on a Berlin Christmas market via TIME The biggest news of the day from the deadly Berlin attack to the Electoral Colleges final decision via nytimes WATCH Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford try to save society in the first trailer for Blade Runner via latimes Heres how you can follow Santa Claus as he makes his trek around the globe on Christmas Eve via HuffingtonPost The list of female celebrities Mariah Carey doesnt know keeps growing. Story via USATODAY All the sneaky ways Rogue One paid homage to Star Wars. Warning spoilers ahead Via vulture President Barack Obama gets candid about his plans for after the White House via NPR How to retire at the benefits of controlled breathing and more of the years most shared stories on AppleNews And the word of the year is Via TIME You officially have permission to eat chocolate especially if its the good stuff. Via WSJ Look back on this years best TV with these memorable moments from voxdotcom This is what happens to the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree after its cut down via DailyMail Here are Zsa Zsa Gabors unforgettable quotes about love and marriage via BuzzFeedNews The Electoral College meets today to determine the next president. Heres what to expect from washingtonpost What you need to know today from the Electoral College vote to the box office win for Rogue One. Via nytimes The frosty and fascinating history of snowmen via WSJ More and more couples are turning to crowdfunding to pay for IVF. Heres why via NPR The story behind nytimes biggest crossword puzzle yet via verge Everyone hates fruitcake. But a Starbucks Fruitcake Frappuccino You know you want one. Via DelishDotCom WATCH SNL celebrates Christmas with Donald Trump and a shirtless Vladimir Putin via voxdotcom What you need to know today from the investigation into Russian hacking to the latest in Aleppo. Via nytimes Do what the TSA says or your teddy bear goes byebye. Seriously Sort of. Via CNTraveler Known as the fifth flavor umami seemingly makes everything better. Now you can buy it in a tube. Via epicurious Read emails sent by actress Tilda Swinton and comedian Margaret Cho discussing race and Hollywood via EW Henry J. Heimlich whose famed maneuver saved thousands of lives died today at age . washingtonpost reports We are on the verge of a mass extinction eliminating of life on earth. CNN investigates the causes What happened to Americas lost medieval city arstechnica investigates Our picks for weekend reading Why you get bad gifts the woman obsessed with extraterrestrial life and more Fashion is frequently unusual but was gloriously peculiar according to qzs marcbain If you find a pink pineapple dont freak outthe FDA says theyre safe to eat via grubstreet Step up your smartphone photography with this handy guide by nytimes Watching RogueOne tonight Wait Heres everything you need to know minus the spoilers via verge Dont miss out on this years best underwater photos from NatGeo Who was the most Googled actress this year VanityFair on the surprising answer James Cordens holiday Carpool Karaoke features Mariah Carey Adele Lady Gaga and more. Watch via HuffingtonPost Dont forget to review your tax situation before years end. CBSNews has moves to consider What is a polar vortex Heres what to know about the winter weather headed your way via TIME President Obama vows action on Russia evacuation suspended in Aleppo and more in todays top stories. Via nytimes The behindthescenes saga of Martin Scorseses latest film is as dramatic as the movie almost. Via VanityFair The perfect present is practical not surprising according to scientists of course. Story via washingtonpost SuperMarioRun fans Nintendos Shigeru Miyamoto reveals surprising facts about the game to WIRED From Moonlight to Lemonade a look at the years best movies music TV and more Goodbye rainbow bagels. Hello ... smores Here are the food trends everyone will be eating next year. Via mic Check out the first photo of Prince Harry and his girlfriend Suits star Meghan Markle via USATODAY Office Secret Santa swap coming up Here are some simple rules to follow when gifting to coworkers via CBSNews Why is LaCroix sparkling water so addictive WIRED investigates Can baking cure your winter blues This new study says yes. And your grandma probably agrees. Via DelishDotCom Why the Yahoo data breach could be even worse than originally thought via business Brace yourselves The polar vortex is back and temperatures are plummeting across the country via CNN Donald Trumps meeting with tech execs the latest on Aleppo and everything you need to know today via nytimes What to cook for the holidays Delicious new ideas for your main course cookies and more Meet Sara Seager the starcrossed astrophysicist obsessed with finding life in space via nytimes Judging by the trailer for Dunkirk Christopher Nolans new WWII film looks darker than Batman. Via VanityFair Ceramic objectspots plants pitchers and moreare back in style. GQMagazine lists of the coolest pieces Aleppo is in crisis. Here are five ways to support the victims ASAP via TIME The Force is strong with Rogue One. The Star Wars movie is on track for a million global opening via THR A look back at the years biggest health questions from Zika to cupping. Via TIME Robin Thicke honors his late dad Alan Thicke. Read his emotional tribute here via CNN Why Elon Musk and the CEO of Uber are joining forces with Donald Trump via washingtonpost You have to see Bruno Mars and James Corden in the latest Carpool Karaoke. Via HuffingtonPost Experts answer all your stock market questions as the Dow nears . Via WSJ Tributes to Alan Thicke are pouring in after the actors unexpected death. Via CBSNews Collapse of the Aleppo ceasefire Donald Trumps latest guests and everything else you need to know today via Cant wait to see RogueOne For those who want a roundup of reviews THR collected critical opinions Are you a bad giftgiver Find out how to improve your gift game and get better ones in return via GQMagazine What do ideas and economics have in common WSJ reports on a big problem facing businesses a lack of great ideas Desperate for help the people of Aleppo have turned to Twitter. Is anyone listening WIRED reports A fascinating look at Obamacare users and why they voted for Donald Trump via voxdotcom Common texting terms translated for middleaged parents via HuffingtonPost Surprising news of the day Kanye West meets with Donald Trump via USATODAY Start bidding You can now buy Marilyn Monroes script from her final and unfinished film. Via HuffingtonPost Love holiday music VanityFair says these are the most notable Christmas albums this year Heres how Donald Trumps tax plan could affect you explained in simple charts. Via FortuneMagazine This mornings biggest stories from Donald Trumps secretary of state pick to the siege in Aleppo. Via nytimes Heres everything we know and everything we dont about Russias involvement with the election via nytimes Is your cat a little weird Allow science to explain via voxdotcom The biggest snubs and surprises from todays Golden Globe nominations via washingtonpost Check out the newest emoji now available on an iPhone near you via TIME Supersonic plane flights may soon be a reality but they wont come cheap via Refinery Whats the late fee on that An overdue library book has been returned after years via HuffingtonPost An inside look at Nikes quest to help runners break the hour marathon mark via WIRED Baby its cold outside. And its about to get even colder. Reuters explains why Follow these simple rules from hgtv to bake the perfect cookie Get some thhour advice on avoiding costly tax mistakes as the year comes to an end via WSJ Heres what NOT to buy when shopping for holiday gifts via CBSNews Nominations for the GoldenGlobes are out Heres who made the cut via VanityFair Todays top news from Donald Trumps next transition steps to the latest box office hit. Via nytimes Step away from the Christmas cookies. WSJ explains why sugar is really really bad for us Best of Check out these awwinspiring animal photos from NatGeo Heres everything you need to know about Louisvilles Heismanwinner Lamar Jackson via washingtonpost Trump taps Breaking Bads Walter White to head DEA in this new SNL skit via HuffingtonPost Bob Dylan skips the Nobel Prize ceremony but still sends along a sweet speech via BBC Todays top news from Donald Trumps secretary of state pick and lingering questions about Russia. Via nytimes Young black transgender women are murdered at an alarming rate. So why is nobody paying attention mic finds out Dont want to do something thescienceofus reports on the most effective way to shutdown unwanted requests An Inconvenient Truth scared us about climate change. And the sequel is even more depressing via VanityFair Do Obama and Trump get along WSJ reports that in spite of their differences the two have forged a relationship Our picks for weekend reading Secrets of an Instagram influencer the case against fake Christmas trees and more The future of Starbucks is slower pricier and focused on premium products. Will consumers bite Via BuzzFeedNews Always forgetting your password WSJs JoannaStern explains the need for a password manager and which one to get The week in entertainment Tina Fey and David Letterman on Trump Madonna twerks and talks Michael Jackson and mor Another week another surprising Taylor Swift song. This time its a duet with Zayn Malik via VanityFair A millionyearold dinosaur tail was found for the first time everand it was covered in feathers via NYMag Bundle up America Its going to get ridiculously cold across the country this year. Via TIME Prince was pretty colorful. GQMagazine had his closest friends share their best stories about his purple highness TopStories John Glenn giraffes and a cold weather alert your Friday briefing courtesy of CNN Trouble getting to bed Eliminate insomnia with these simple sleep hacks. Via thescienceofus Put down the fake tree HuffingtonPost has reasons why real evergreens are probably better for the planet Is college worth the cost Nine students share their educated opinions on the value of higher education with NPR A behavioral scientist has engineered a stepbystep guide to having the perfect night out via GQMagazine This easy recipe will meet all your ginger cookie needs this Christmas via delish These fitness hacks will help you stay healthy even when you cant make it to the gym via HuffingtonPost Need to get away Youre in luck travelchannel just debuted its list of the top Caribbean vacations Find out why Leonardo DiCaprio met with Donald Trump via USATODAY Mick Jagger is a dad for the th time at age via VanityFair Goodbye giraffes A research group found that the animals are in the process of a silent extinction via CNN A new report has a disturbing finding about life expectancy. voxdotcom explains Watch Madonna and James Corden combine forces in the latest Carpool Karaoke via VanityFair TopStories Donald Trumps latest appointments and everything else you need to know this Thursday via nytimes Is higher education still a good investment Nine students share their educated opinions via NPR Every year Americans eat million Big Macs. Read about the man behind the beloved burger via TheAtlantic Scientists found a mysterious blob in the ocean that had been missing for a hundred years. Story via NatGeo Youre hired nytimes breaks down the process of applying for a job in Donald Trumps White House An leatherwrapped rock has sold out at Nordstrom. Yes you read that correctly. Via CNN Want to clear your inbox of all those annoying sales emails WSJ explains how Donald Trump told Matt Lauer on TODAYshow that hes sought advice from President Obama. Story via BuzzFeedNews Heres what happens when David Letterman interviews Tina Fey via THR Donald Trump has been named Person of the Year by TIME. Heres what to know about the selection process TopStories years on from Pearl Harbor NatGeo looks at the deadly attack that pulled the nation into war What does life without insurance look like nytimes reports on the physical and psychological tolls How skateboarding icon Rodney Mullen connects imagination and innovation via SmithsonianMag Video of a man punching a kangaroo in the face went viral. But what if the kangaroo fought back Story via NatGeo Own a digital camera Master the myriad knobs dials and settings with this nifty web tool via WIRED A new report found that parents spend as much time on screen as teenagers via TIME Learn how to fall asleep faster with these simple steps from thescienceofus Here are all the artists who received GrammyNominations via CNN Donald Trump tweeted this morning that the government should cancel its order for a new Air Force One. Via CBSNews The Pentagon buried a study that revealed billion in administrative waste reports washingtonpost Planning a holiday ski vacation CNTraveler rounds up the best places to go Edward Snowden talks to katiecouric about Trump Putin and hopes of getting a presidential pardon. Via YahooNews When is it acceptable to brag and how can you do it well WSJ explains Whip up a special holiday treat for friends and family with these recipes from hgtv Tiger Woods struggled at times but heres why fans should be very optimistic about his comeback via USATODAY Never stand in line again at Amazons new cashierfree convenience store via verge It was the Obamas last Kennedy Center Honors with tributes to Al Pacino James Taylor and more via CNN Whats next for the Dakota Access Pipeline Its far from clear via BuzzFeedNews The death toll in the Oakland warehouse is now as crews are forced to suspend their search via washingtonpost Standing Rock Oakland Matteo Renzi Everything you need to know this Monday morning via nytimes TopStories things you probably dont know about Christmas classic Home Alone via BuzzFeedNews As college football fans gear up for the playoffs a look at the seasons winners and losers via washingtonpost What Donald Trumps call with Taiwans president could mean for the future of U.S.China relations via WSJ Fidel Castros ashes are interred in Cuba capping off nine days of national mourning via CBSNews Heres an inside look at the Oakland warehouse party before the fatal fire broke out via BuzzFeedNews SNL takes aim at Donald Trumps Twitter usage and the presidentelect tweets back. Via CNN The death toll in the Oakland warehouse fire has risen to as crews continue to search the wreckage via SFGate See photos from Chapec Brazil where citizens and fans alike said goodbye to the beloved soccer club via WSJ China criticized Donald Trumps phone call with Taiwan calling it petty via washingtonpost Our picks for weekend reading How a headache changed one mans life surviving a replyall fiasco amp more Developing At least people are dead in a fire that struck an Oakland warehouse latimes reports yearold artist John Baldessari never designed carsuntil BMW asked. See pics of his custom art car via Why do serial killers kill Discover what data on murderers and victims had to say via voxdotcom Getting paid to use Instagram seems great. But as business learned the life of an influencer can be exhausting What happens when you combine Drake amp Taylor Swift Drift. According to MTVNews the pair have plenty in common Not sure how to talk to your kids about Santa cbsnews has some tips If you accidentally hit replyall on a work email dont panic. BBCCapital explains some surprising benefits Here are all the Christmas cookie recipes youll need this season via HuffingtonPost This week in entertainment Natalie Portman brings Jackie Kennedy back to life a complete Oscar guide and more You can be happier if you do this one simple thing every day reports thescienceofus TopStoriesDonald Trump holds first postelection rally results of the latest jobs report and more What does slow architecture have to do with fast food dwell writes about the history of an aesthetic movement Do you consider yourself obese CDCgov says nearly half of all Americans are overweight via washingtonpost Drawn by its desert landscape many artists call Marfa TX home. GQMagazine tours the towns most artistic abodes According to the IRS the really rich just got richer. WSJ reports on the rise of Americas super wealthy Nike hopes to revolutionize its sneaker game and retail model with selflacing kicks via WSJ Heres EVERYTHING you need to know about this years Oscar race via TIME Best breakthrough ever Nestle says its figured out a hollow sugar that could cut calories in chocolate via CNN Its December bring on the new streaming options. Heres a guide to the best shows and movies via voxdotcom These striking photos give a rare glimpse into the lives of Cubas youth via NatGeo How Dwayne The Rock Johnson used his football failures to become a huge Hollywood star via SInow RT AppleMusic Every day babies are born with HIV. Lets get that to zero.Donate now. goes to REDs fight to endAIDS. https A lack of sleep can have huge financial ramifications. CBSNews reports on a new study Here are strategies for finding the best deals this holiday season via WSJ What you need to know today from protests erupting in Charlotte to Trumps rally in the Midwest. Via nytimes Being hit by a meteorite sounds bad enough. But for one woman the trouble had just begun. Story via Martin Scorsese met with the Pope to discuss his film about thcentury priests. VanityFair reports on the meeting Need destination inspiration Try NatGeos guide with amazing photography amp travel tips to vacationing in As Trump tries to keep jobs in America Mexico is attracting investment from Europe and Asia. Story via qz What on Earth is advent and why does it involve calendars An explainer from voxdotcom Here are brownie recipes to satisfy every sweettooth. Youre welcome world. Via delishdotcom Soon youll be able to bingewatch anywhere thanks to downloadable shows on Netflix. Via CNBC WATCH You have to see LinManuels Mirandas tipsy take on Hamilton via voxdotcom Four people skipped the illfated flight that crashed in Colombia yesterday. Here are their stories via CNN We all dread that moment when the alarm goes off. Get more sleep by following this one rule via thescienceofus Hillary Clinton made a surprise appearance to honor Katy Perry via USATODAY Donald Trump vowed on Twitter to leave his great business in total but details were scant. Via nytimes Here are your top stories this morning from Tennessee wildfires to Trumps rollout of his economic team. Via CNN Let the games begin your favorite arcade classics are coming to Facebook. Via TIME In honor of GivingTuesday voxdotcom has a list of charities where your money will go a long long way Are video blogs over See why some YouTube stars are quitting the popular platform via verge From Nicole Kidman to Julianne Moore see whos stripping down tastefully for the Pirelli calendar via CNN Heres how to get a letter from Santa postmarked from the North Pole via HuffingtonPost It was a VERY good week for Hamilton via USATODAY Donald Trumps comments on flag burning are sparking fierce debate via nytimes Its official Cyber Monday was the biggest online shopping day in U.S. history via Reuters Stories of survival from the Colombian plane crash via BuzzFeedNews Ever wonder why people in old photos look so serious TIME explains Do you get easily distracted Science shows there might be a benefit to that. Via WSJ A sinking story building in San Francisco may be losing ground even faster than previously thought. Via Need to recover from Black Friday and Cyber Monday Pay it forward on GivingTuesday. Via USATODAY Donald Trumps transition itinerary a deadly plane crash in Colombia and more top stories via nytimes Trees save lives. No really. voxdotcom explains it all. Lady Gaga on one of the biggest drawbacks of fame I miss people. Story via TIME Hillary Clinton has popped back up on Twitter. First order of business following Snoop Dogg. Via USATODAY Yes its CyberMonday. But Black Friday could become the years biggest online shopping day via FoxNews Why you should REALLY be following TSA on Instagram via washingtonpost Wisconsin officials have agreed to recount votes. Heres what you need to know via TIME Donald Trump threatens to terminate normalized relations with Cuba unless they make a better deal. Via FoxNews Will Obamacare be repealed What would replace it CNN answers your health care questions From visiting Santas house in Alaska to taking a Caribbean cruise travelchannel has trip ideas for the holidays Shopping for CyberMonday deals Read these online safety tips first. Via CBSNews Cards Against Humanity convinced people to donate more than to dig a giant hole in the ground. Via CNN What you need to know to start your day from the election recount to CyberMonday deals. Via nytimes At the top of the agenda for Donald Trump Keeping these key Republican senators on his side via nytimes Disney has a big holiday hit on its hands as Moana sails in with million via THR Whats in a name Trump Tower was briefly labeled Dump Tower on Google Maps via CBSNews Trump advisor Kellyanne Conway is not a fan of Mitt Romney as secretary of state. Heres why via CNN Now heres one more thing to be thankful for Sundays travel rush has been relatively hassle free via USATODAY Donald Trump sounds off on Hillary Clinton for backing the recount via washingtonpost The Gilmore Girls ending left us with so.many. questions. Luckily TIME has some answers warning spoilers ahead Be kind and rewind film fanaticsWSJ reports on the resurgence of the video store Calling all restless travelers see the world in hours with NatGeos stunning photo tour Senator Cory Booker calls for a federal investigation into police tactics at the Dakota pipeline via BuzzFeedNews With his brother gone will Raul Castro steer Cuba in a new direction Story via nytimes Fidel Castros death is being met with a mixture of sadness and celebration. NPR reports on the worlds reaction Just in Hillary Clintons campaign has agreed to participate in the Wisconsin recount CNN reports As the Standing Rock Sioux protest the Dakota pipeline washingtonpost uncovers the extent of the opposition No credit history no problem Lenders are using phone data to see if consumers are creditworthy. Via business How did pounds of leftover turkey lead to the TV dinner Read the history of a frozen food fave via NatGeo Is Black Friday a success so far WSJ reports on how brick and mortar stores are competing today with online sales The GilmoreGirlsRevival is now on Netflix. When youre done bingewatching see if you agree with NPRs review Revisit the storied career of actress Florence Henderson known best as the Brady Bunch mom via nytimes Dylann Roof the accused Charleston church shooter has been found competent to stand trial. Via USATODAY Run out of things to say at the Thanksgiving table Let verge be your cinematic saviour with this handy movie guide Retailers are hoping for a postelection boost when consumers turn their attention to Black Friday says business Youve not had your turkey yet but its time to survey the smorgasbord of Black Friday deals via washingtonpost Trumps latest appointments his Thanksgiving plans and everything else you need to know this Thursday via The Vatican launches a new app inevitably dubbed Sindr to help users find the nearest confessional via TIME Heres how to handle Thanksgiving dinner if talk turns to politics via CNN Heres how to handle Thanksgiving dinner if talk turns to politics via CNN A new study finds that sexist men are more likely to have mentalhealth problems via washingtonpost Republicans are banking on Mike Pence playing a central role in Donald Trumps legislative efforts NPR reports When it comes to Black Friday sales department stores know what gets shoppers in the doors . boots Via WSJ Traveling for Thanksgiving Mother nature has a few surprises in store via USATODAY A gold medal AND a disco ball Gymnast Laurie Hernandez wins Dancing With the Stars via ESPN The latest on Donald Trumps transition plans and everything else you need to know this Wednesday via nytimes Heres what its like to land a coveted spot as a balloonhandler in Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade. Via Twins who were conjoined at the head are making a miraculous recovery after separation surgery. Via CNN Start a virtual food drive. Donate a Blue Apron meal. Heres how you can give back this Thanksgiving via mic People are traveling far and wide to get Snapchats videorecording spectacles...and making huge profits. Via WSJ Looking for slightly healthier options on Thanksgiving Here are recipes you can try via BuzzFeedNews Catch a glimpse of Barack Obama during his college years in the new trailer for the Netflix film Barry. Via TIME Follow these tips to keep the peace at Thanksgiving with people who dont share your politics via CBSNews TopStoriesDonald Trump releases video on policy goals school bus driver arrested in fatal Tennessee crash amp mor Watch this video via FoodNetwork to become an expert turkeycarver before Thanksgiving Its not too late to book a holiday trip for your family. travelchannel has great getaways Rethinking your use of social media after the election Youre not alone. NPR on how people are cutting back Jennifer Lawrence on her career protecting her privacy and learning to say what she means. Via VanityFair If youre preparing to host your first Thanksgiving this recipe guide has everything you need. Via mic What color are these flipflops People are disagreeing over what they see and flipping out. Via HuffingtonPost The Hamilton star who read a message on stage to Mike Pence says the cast has nothing to apologize for. Via CNN TopStoriesDonald Trump continues meetings for cabinet picks Fantastic Beasts tops box office and more This should make Thanksgiving travel even more fun A big snowstorm is heading for the Northeast via USATODAY Here are some smart strategies for avoiding family drama during Thanksgiving dinner via WSJ See what inspired the KanyeIsOverParty via BuzzFeedNews Donald Trump is still not laughing. The presidentelect took to Twitter to blast nbcsnl again via CNN Heres everything you need to know before you spend a penny on BlackFriday via USATODAY Vice presidentelect Mike Pence says he was NOT offended by the Hamilton cast via BuzzFeedNews Donald Trump is closing in on his picks for top national security jobs. Heres the latest via Reuters How much influence might Jared Kushner Donald Trumps soninlaw wield in the White House nytimes reports The life of a prince isnt perfect. Speaking candidly Prince William revealed his family struggles via TIME In a new nightmarish Netflix trailer blackmirror puts the camera onor rather inthe viewer. Via Complex Did stress make Sean Brocks food taste better GQMagazines brettmartin profiles the visionary southern chef Our picks for weekend reading Tips for a foolproof Thanksgiving what the crud on your phone says about you amp mor How did Obama really feel following his first meeting with Trump Story via VanityFair If youre trying to stay slim through Thanksgiving keep these gut busters off your plate via FoodNetwork The oldest woman in space is breaking all kinds of records. See which ones via NatGeo Jon Stewart has one question for Donald Trump what makes America great Stewart gave his own answer via voxdotcom This is why you REALLY get so tired after eating Thanksgiving dinner its not the tryptophan. Via WIRED You might not want to hear what scientists discovered living on ATMs in New York City. Via washingtonpost Heres what happened when a grandma accidentally invited the wrong teen to Thanksgiving dinner via CNN The iconic dress Marilyn Monroe wore to sing Happy Birthday to JFK has sold for nearly million. Via TIME Thanksgiving travel might be less stressful this year thanks to technology to speed up airport lines. Via business Modern maps are beautiful and brilliantly detailed. NatGeo looks at some of the best from the Atlas of Design From Kim to Kylie the Kardashians are officially the highestearning reality stars via TIME Elon Musks vision for clean energy cars speeds along with a new merger between Tesla and SolarCity via business Were glad Gilmore Girls is back. But why did it take years THR chats with the shows creators Behold the best food trends of via DelishDotCom. Prepare to drool. Scrambling to plan your Thanksgiving Weve got you covered with turkey tips updated holiday pies and more Planning to do most of your holiday shopping online this year So is everyone else. Story via FortuneMagazine LeBron James pledges . million to help fund the Smithsonians Muhammad Ali exhibit via CNN WATCH Metallica plays Enter Sandman with classroom instruments on Jimmy Fallon via FoxNews Thanksgiving means one thing guaranteed quality couch time. Heres what to stream while you lounge via TIME Heres what can happen if you take time to step outside during your work day via OrganicLifeMag Neiman Marcus and Rent the Runway could be bitter rivals but instead theyre joining forces. Via washingtonpost Heres what Hillary Clinton said in her first public remarks since conceding the election via BuzzFeedNews things you need to know today from Obamas farewell overseas trip to Trumps first meeting with a foreign leader A hidden ocean might be lurking beneath Plutos chilly exterior scientists say. Story via TIME Your guide to saving money on holiday shopping by using apps bots and smartphone cameras via WSJ Best way to prevent the flu Skip supplements and boost your immune system the natural way eating veggies. Via Thanks to Deadpools success Ryan Reynolds is a certified star. So whats that like GQMagazine finds out Who needs the Concorde Check out this sweet supersonic passenger jet coming soon to a runway near you. Via WSJ Two tourists died of heart attacks minutes apart during a snorkeling trip via CBSNews It could be cheaper to jetset next year. FortuneMagazine explains why Starting your holiday shopping Heres when you can get the best deals on jewelry toys amp more. Via washingtonpost The Gilmore Girls are back in town next week vulture gives its review on the miniseries So many people are watching the Beauty and the Beast trailer that it just set a record. Via guardian Find out what to expect from the TSA when you travel this holiday season via WSJ TopStoriesThe latest on Donald Trumps transition team President Obamas last overseas trip and more Cheap clothing sometimes comes at a serious price human life. esquire reports on the cost of fast fashion Credit or debit Theres a time and place for both. CNBC weighs the pros and cons of each Theres lots to eat at Starbucks. For healthier choices heres how one nutritionist sees their menu via CNN This is not a drill Oreo has released a new candy bar via USATODAY A mute button for online trolls Check out Twitters new features designed to limit hate speech via THR Brace yourselves. TIME reports that Thanksgiving will be the busiest for travel in nearly a decade Youve got to see Odell Beckham Jr.s epic Thrillerinspired touchdown celebration via USATODAY Is it hot in here Dwayne The Rock Johnson is named Sexiest Man Alive by people Could Donald Trump make money off the Secret Service business explains Ahead of the Gilmore Girls revival voxdotcom ranks every single episode Pink mustaches no more. Lyft is trying a new tactic to help you find your ride via WIRED Donald Trump has vowed to deport up to million immigrants. nytimes breaks down what that would mean Now that the election is over can you repair rifts with friends who backed the other candidate WSJ explains how TopStoriesDonald Trump draws criticism over Stephen Bannon appointment Mike Pence faces email battle amp more Mon dieu Fois gras producers are worried as bird flu spreads across Europe via Reuters You have to see these photos of the epic Supermoon as seen from around the world. Via WSJ WATCH Emma Watson gets her Belle on in a magical trailer for the liveaction Beauty and the Beast. Via verge Want to try something new Book a table at one of the hottest restaurants across the country via TastingTable With the holiday season fast approaching check out this handy guide on whom to tip and how much. Via CNBC Want to make more money Then get more sleep. washingtonpost explains the findings of a new study If youre having multiple Thanksgiving meals we all love Friendsgiving heres how to mix up the menu via WSJ Heres what Trump said about immigration abortion amp Hillary Clinton in a Minutes interview via MarketWatch TopStoriesObama to take last foreign trip of his presidency Trump makes key White House appointments and more Hey everyone its World Kindness Day. Yes thats a thing. Yes we need it more than ever. A video via CNN Legendary musician Leon Russell has died at age via USATODAY France marks the year anniversary of the Paris terror attacks via CBSNews Yesterday was a wild day in college football. Get up to speed with ESPN See SNLs incredibly moving opening song via CNN TopStories Donald Trumps presidential transition plan takes shape and everything else you need to know today Breakfast with benefitsstart the day off right with these stressrelieving superfoods via extracrispy According to his lawyer Bill Cosby is considering a comedy comeback. VanityFair reports Have Americans lost their faith in political polls Or do we need to reinterpret the data Story via qz Got a tough teenager Could be a good thing. Learn the smart sane way to argue with them via WSJ If you dislike shopping finding a free personal shopper seems like a great idea. Story via nytimes Welcome to paradise sneakerheads GQMagazine visits Nikes new story store the Disney World of Sneakers Our picks for weekend reading Solving a Thanksgiving dilemma an easy way to destress after a long week and more The McDonalds menu gets healthier with kale salads and antibioticfree chicken. But will diners bite Via business A record animated movies have been submitted as possible Oscar nominees. See the full list via THR From best to worst ComplexMag ranks every movie in the Marvel universe. Where do your favorites fall Going away for the holidays Brush up on these travel tips first. Via FoxNews In charge of making the turkey for Thanksgiving Heres what NOT to do via HuffingtonPost Heres what youre missing at the Caribbeans most luxurious new resort. Via business Meet women from across the nation who helped Donald Trump become the next president via nytimes TopStoriesDonald Trump visits the White House his transition team works to form a cabinet and more Walking in the woods one Hillary supporter ran into HRC herselfand had Bill take their photo via vanityfair Get used to a new Spiderman. GQMagazine reports that actor Tom Holland will play Spidey in at least Marvel movie Whos going to be in Donald Trumps new cabinet BuzzFeedNews has a list of potential picks Prepare for some big unexpected changes to your taxes according to WSJ Parks amp Rec may be over. But beloved character Leslie Knope still has thoughts on the election via voxdotcom Looking to turn off your brain for a bit BuzzFeedNews offers up this list of movies that are escapist delights Madame Tussauds is already working on a new Donald Trump wax figure via Reuters Not sure what to cook on Thanksgiving This list has you covered. Via HuffingtonPost Meet the downballot female candidates who made history this week via CNN TopStoriesProtests spread after Donald Trumps election President Obama to host Trump at the White House amp more Who gets to go to Mars WIRED reports on how NASA chooses astronauts for the incredible journey Millennials werent key to Trumps win. But as business reports their impact on the election was significant Breathe. Exhale. Repeat. Feel better Learn more about the benefits of controlled breathing via nytimes Some states raised the minimum wage while others loosened marijuana laws. Find out who did what via NPR Will a Trump presidency affect your retirement plans It might qz has more detail beers firsttime voters and a sea of red hatssights from Donald Trumps election night party via GQMagazine Strange but true The Simpsons predicted a Trump presidency back in via USATODAY Want to bake the ultimate pumpkin pie Start with THIS via HuffingtonPost If youve been glued to election coverage for the last hours here are stories you might have missed. Via CNN A revealing look inside the final days of the Clinton campaign via politico President Barack Obama on Donald Trumps victory We are now all rooting for his success in uniting and leading From Russia to the U.K. heres how world leaders reacted to the results of ElectionNight via TIME WATCH LIVE President Obama speaks about Donald Trumps historic victory via CBSNews In concession speech Hillary Clinton says she congratulated Donald Trump and offered to work with him on behalf o Rep. Paul Ryan speaks after Donald Trumps big night Stocks shrugged off the tumult that engulfed markets overnight after Trumps victory via WSJ WATCH LIVE Hillary Clinton to address supporters after losing the presidential election. Via CBS News Why did the Election polls get it wrong TheEconomist explains Trying to make sense of Donald Trumps historic victory Get up to speed with our reader guide. WATCH LIVE Donald Trump speaks to supporters after winning the presidential election via CBSNews ElectionNight Donald Trump will win enough electoral votes to become the th president. ElectionNight Clintons campaign chair says votes are still being counted tells supporters to go home. ElectionNight Donald Trump takes Pennsylvania to move closer to winning the presidency. Heres where we stand on ElectionNight With a key victory in Pennsylvania Republicans retain control of the Senate via BuzzFeedNews ElectionNight Donald Trump claims key wins in Georgia Iowa and Utah Hillary Clinton carries Washington Election Up in smoke California voters have legalized recreational marijuana in the state via latimes Election Donald Trumps big night rolls on with wins in Florida and North Carolina Clinton wins California and Colorado Republican Speaker Paul Ryan has won his bid for reelection defeating Paul Nehlen in Wisconsin. Via Reuters Donald Trump adds to lead by winning the battleground state of Ohio Hillary Clinton wins Virginia. ElectionNight Clinton wins New Mexico Trump picks up Missouri and Montana. Heres where we stand on ElectionNight Markets drop worldwide as Donald Trump gets out to early electoral lead via washingtonpost Election Republicans are projected to retain control of the House of Representatives via CNN Election Were coming up on a big hour with poll closings in battleground states Utah Nevada and Iowa ElectionNight Clinton wins Connecticut to pick up electoral votes Trump wins Louisianas electoral votes. Heres the latest How do the TV networks call an election An explainer via qz ElectionNight Clinton takes Illinois N.Y. N.J. amp other states Trump picks up Texas Tennessee S.C. amp more. Heres where we st Democrats have notched their first Senate pickup of the night via HuffingtonPost Election Sen. Marco Rubio has won reelection in Florida via nytimes Election Here are key Senate developments for Ohio Kentucky and Indiana ElectionNight Polls are about to close in a wave of key states including Pennsylvania New Hampshire and Michigan. Heres where Trump projected to take West Virginia gaining another electoral votes ElectionNight Polls are closing in North Carolina Ohio and West Virginia. ElectionNight Two California polling stations were placed on lockdown after a nearby shooting via CNBC ElectionNight First results of the night Donald Trump projected to win Indiana and Kentucky. Hillary Clinton projected to take V Polls in swingstate Florida are about to close along with Georgia and Virginia. Ohio and North Carolina will foll ElectionNight Heres what those coveted I voted stickers look like across the country via voxdotcom Were about to have our first wave of poll closings including parts of Indiana and Kentucky Now thats dedication. A pregnant woman in Colorado voted on her way to give birth. Via CNN Election Steady crowds are gathering at Susan B. Anthonys grave via washingtonpost. ElectionDay Undecided no more Ken Bone casts his vote via THR. ElectionDay Hillary Clinton does the Mannequin Challenge and yes thats Bon Jovi joining in. Via guardian Voters will be casting ElectionDay ballots for a lot more than president. voxdotcom explains what else is at stake Heres how to stay up to speed on Election in Apple News Prince Harry makes a rare comment on his relationship status and slams the press via THR Confused about how the Electoral College works TheEconomist breaks it down for you Who has an easier path to the presidency What are the key states to watch Our ElectionDay guide has the answers Its Election Day. Go vote. Find information on voting times and polling places for every state via nytimes Because life needs more puppies especially right before Election Day. Via USATODAY See why Denzel Washington is getting major Oscar buzz via THR Ditch group tours. Skip the obvious beaches. Heres how to have a culturally rich vacation via nytimes Sorry guys. This video from CNN explains why the flu shot is better than the mist When you gotta go you gotta gomake a major archeological discovery via USATODAY Hosting a party on election night FoodNetwork has some tips on what to cook Attention anxious electionwatchers Early returns in key states may offer clues to the outcome via WSJ Heres what to watch for as Clinton and Trump campaign on the last day before the election via nytimes Benedict Cumberbatch proves hes boxoffice magic with Dr. Strange via THR WATCH Its terror on the high seas as sharks and whales swarm a school of fish via NatGeo Do you want fries with thatphone Via verge After Hillary Clinton email review the F.B.I. says we have not changed our conclusions via CNN How to break your cellphone addiction via FoxNews WATCH Alec Baldwin amp Kate McKinnon call for an end to election nastiness on SNL via CNN Will Cam Newton get some love from the refs And all the other burning questions in the NFL this week via ESPN TopStories Hillary Clinton amp Donald Trump enter the home stretch and everything else you need to know today. Hes back Comedian Dave Chappelle will host SNL for the first time next week via THR Read about the queen of vegan cuisine who went from restauranteur to runway fugitive via VanityFair Cant make it to Mars or the moon Visit one of these otherworldly destinations here on Earth via NatGeo Our picks for weekend reading The bad foods you dont have to fear how to write a better todo list and more Miss Jon Stewarts The Daily Show Stewart and StephenAtHome reflect on their time at the show via VanityFair When does your brain slow down A new study suggests increased development well into old age via TIME Lots of great Oscarworthy movies came out this year. latimes lists you should see before February Why is daylight savings which starts Sunday still a thing NatGeo lists the pros amp cons of setting the clock bac Why do certain songs always get stuck in your head CNN explains The new TV shows you should be watching. Plus Beyonc goes country amp more of the weeks top entertainment stories You can now buy collard greens at Neiman Marcus for the low price of plus shipping. Via NPR When will the election actually end washingtonpost looks back at the past election nights in all their glory Preparing for holiday travel Find out which airports are best to avoid via FoxNews There are only days left in the presidential race. Heres what to keep an eye on via thehill TopStoriesThe latest on the FBIs investigation of Clintons emails candidates fight for swing states and more What are the best most bingeworthy documentaries of the st century GQMagazine has great picks The new TV shows you should be watching Beyonce goes country amp more of the weeks biggest entertainment stories Tensions are running high at the Dakota Access Pipeline. See portraits of the protestors up close via A viral tweet from seemed to predict the World Series. Too good to be true Yesand heres why via voxdotcom Bad at selfrestraint Blame biology Via voxdotcom Hostess is planning big changes. But dont worry their Twinkie recipe will stay exactly the same via WSJ Vogue declared that cleavage is unfashionable and people are NOT happy via FoxNews WATCH Beyonc performs an incredible surprise duet with the Dixie Chicks via guardian How does the transition to a new president actually work Heres everything you need to know via CNN Taking a stroll can significantly lift your mood research shows. So get going Via HuffingtonPost Need help deciding what TV shows to watch nytimes has a guide to fall shows you should catch up on Meet Cubs fans who have been waiting their entire lives more than years for a CubsWin. Via CNN TopStoriesHow the Cubs won the World Series the presidential race gets tighter with days left and more Baseballs longest drought is over The Cubs are WorldSeries champs for the first time in years via nytimes Rents are still high despite landlords slashing prices. Which cities got the biggest reductions Via business Talk about cleaning up this janitor made over k working overtime. But whos footing the bill Via TIME Whether the Cubs or Indians win tonights WorldSeriesGame will definitely make history. See why via NYMag Is Benedict Cumberbatchs Dr. Strange worth seeing Short answer yes. Via washingtonpost How Bill Murray made the dreams of one Cubs fan come true. Via SInow Weve got your November todo list right here via travelchannel Why you should really rethink your love affair with the snooze button via thescienceofus Val Kilmer speaks out The actor insists he has no cancer whatsoever. Via USATODAY Dont wait any longer to book your Thanksgiving travel. Every day you delay will cost you money reports CBSNews How much would you pay for World Series Game tickets Some are listed for more than . Via SInow Can the voter map change Will Clinton or Trump go positive nytimes has key dynamics to watch before the race ends TopStoriesTwo Iowa police officers killed in ambushstyle attacks and more Why did Vincent Van Gogh cut off his ear A new theory suggests family problems for the famed artist via qz Its November Whats new on Netflix Hulu and HBO voxdotcom has a rundown of movies perfect for holiday streaming Get excited Good Wife fans The spinoff finally has a title via CBSNews Its the dirty little secret about Black Friday sales They offer the same deals every year Via WSJ Christmas comes early The universe has given us this amazing new Fuller House trailer via businessinisder Heres why the land at the center of the Dakota Access Pipeline dispute is so important via CNN Adele opens up about the challenges of motherhood and megastardom in a cover story for VanityFair Black Friday deals are already here so you can get started on that holiday shopping list. Via USATODAY Heres how to get the most out of your todo lists via qz Use your piles of leftover Halloween candy to make these amazing desserts. Via HuffingtonPost Meet two people named Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump who are NOT running for president. Via CNN The biggest news to start your day from the election countdown to Obamacare open enrollment via USATODAY Not trickortreating tonight Check out these chilling documentaries via voxdotcom Inferno failed to ignite at the box office. What does that mean for Ron Howards career Via nytimes These volcanoes will get your Halloween off to a seriously spooky start via WIRED Sorry ladies. It looks like Prince Harry may be off the market via CBSNews. And gasp Shes American Hilary Duff is SO sorry about her culturally insensitive Halloween costume via FoxNews Your friends are not REALLY in North Dakota. They just want Facebook to think they are. Heres why via CNN Why you might want to think twice about going for a run when youre angry via nytimes Do you trust your dog walker Now you can get realtime surveillance. Via business Get ready for an hour extra of sleep next weekend Heres why we turn back the clocks via USATODAY What we know and dont know about the investigation into Hillary Clintons emails via CNN Happy Halloween See how Mariah Carey Amy Schumer and more celebrities dressed up to celebrate via TIME TopStoriesThe latest on FBI Director James Comeys October surprise and the final sprint to Election Day WATCH This video of books being reshelved at a New York City library is completely mesmerizing. Via qz The legitimately spooky and fascinating history of the Ouija board via guardian Why cant we just vote online An explainer via voxdotcom Heres what your dogs life is REALLY like via CBSNews Yes NASA has a pumpkin carving contest. Yes you absolutely need to see it. Via WIRED Dont be a Scrooge. Make your credit card rewards work for you this holiday season via USATODAY Hey football fans Heres what to look for in this weeks NFL matches via ESPN TopStories The latest on Hillary Clintons email investigation and everything else you need to know this morning. Our picks for weekend reading The money mistakes you make at every age why people love posh gyms amp more Who killed Vine VanityFair reports on the companys demise in a story of fame fortune and plain old mismanagemen Candy corn good or gross New candy corninspired treatsOreos MampMs even Peepsare haunting shelves via WSJ Guys need a Halloween costume GQMagazine asks women to vote on your best amp worst options hint avoid clowns Trick or treat voxdotcom ranks Halloween candies from best to worst Heres the latest on the FBIs announcement that it will review new Clinton emails via washingtonpost Our favorites in food A selfdriving truck makes a beer run how to cook healthier Thanksgiving dishes amp more Hillary Clintons campaign has more than twice as much cash to spend as Donald Trumps via business Get your Friday started with these key top stories via nytimes Hate internet providers sharing your personal info So does the FCC who passed new privacy rules via BuzzFeedNews A sad GilmoreGirls trailer Gaga on carpool karaoke and the novel everyones reading in our entertainment roundu Shoppers in their s amp s are avoiding supermarkets. Why WSJ reports on grocery stores vs. ecommerce Justin Timberlake has totally learned his lesson after that illegal ballot selfie via THR The gripping account of a Coast Guard rescue and the lifeanddeath stakes of climate change. Via gqmagazine And now for an inspirational message from Tim Tebow Via USATODAY All trick no treat. Thieves stole worth of pumpkins form one New Jersey farm via USATODAY Selfdriving cars are just the beginning. Inside Ubers plans for a fleet of FLYING vehicles via WIRED Twitter is shutting down its Vine app. Please pause for seconds of silence. Via verge Surprise Turns out Michael Phelps has been secretly married for months. Via SInow In the market for a new TV Heres how to time your purchase just right via business A year after revealing hes HIV positive Charlie Sheen catches up with THR about his health An alarming report finds twothirds of wildlife in the world could be gone by . Story via HuffingtonPost Scientists just debunked the mythology of how AIDS arrived in the U.S. washingtonpost explains What you need to know to start your day from the campaign trail to the World Series. Briefing via nytimes What is believed to be Christs burial place was exposed for the first time in centuries. Story via NatGeo Noisy coworkers arent just annoying. Theyre career hazards costing you time and money. NPR explains why You may want to rethink your retirement plans. The next years could be ugly for your K business reports We know holiday travel can be brutal. Here are few tips to make it a little less hohohorrible. Via nytimes Everything youve ever wanted to know about candy corn. And we mean everything. Via USATODAY This incredible messageinabottle story will give hope to romantics everywhere via ABCNews Congratulations to Ciara and Russell Wilson The newlyweds are expecting their first baby reports CBSNews Your day just got better Here are recipes for every kind of chocolate chip cookie you could want via FoodNetwork Find out why you might want to delay your holiday getaway until after the New Year. Via CBSNews Do your parents still not understand your job Take them along on the next Bring In Your Parents Day. Via USATODAY Theres a wonky reason we go to the polls on the first Tuesday after a Monday in November. Via washingtonpost TopStoriesTrump amp Clinton give dueling speeches in Florida battleground states fight over voting laws and more What unites Scarlett Johansson and Jennifer Lawrence Both will play socialite Zelda Fitzgerald onscreen via THR Appetites is Anthony Bourdains new dysfunctional family cookbook. Cowriter LaurieWoolever shares lost recipes Paul Beatty is the first American to win a ManBookerPrize one of the worlds biggest book awards. Via guardian Game of the WorldSeries between the Indians and Cubs is underway. Here are the matchups to watch via USATODAY From the latest polls to laws against ballot selfies heres what you need to know as election day nears Quick eat a banana split now while you still can Via CNN Only two weeks until Election Dayfrom the latest polls to laws against ballot selfies heres what you need to kno Some folks are NOT happy about the Walking Dead premiere. Via FoxNews Bring on the basketball Get up to speed before the NBA regular season tips off tonight. NBATipOff Get a sneak peak of Lady Gaga and James Corden belting out Bad Romance via CNN Is nothing sacred The composition book gets a new look via WIRED See what the AmySchumerGottaGoParty is all about via CBSNews Stop what youre doing and go watch this GilmoreGirls trailer. Just grab a tissue mkay Via TIME An Englishspeaking teenager woke up from a coma speaking fluent Spanish. How does that happen CNN explains Take an indepth look at the financial errors we make as we age and how to avoid them. Via WSJ How many frequentflier miles does it take to board a private jet Deltas asking for . million. Via business Obamacare premiums are on track to rise faster than ever before next year. voxdotcom explains what you need to know TopStoriesClinton and Trump both hold events in Florida what to watch as the World Series begins and more The Shakespeare news thats shaking up high school English classes everywhere via NPR Does a full moon really make people act crazy washingtonpost investigates TopStoriesDonald Trump addresses the latest misconduct allegations Jared Fogles exwife sues Subway and more. Girl Scout cookie cereal Mornings just got WAY better. Via CNNMoney Brace yourself. Theres a major guacamole shortage. Via CNBC Bill Murray accepted his Mark Twain prize for humor in the most Bill Murray way possible via CBSNews Work can be stressful enough without toxic colleagues. Heres how to coexist peacefully via nytimes Think twice before you take a ballot selfie. states have laws against it. Via FortuneMagazine Today marks a decade since Taylor Swift released her first album. USATODAY traces the pop stars evolution Clinton amp Trump are hitting battleground states hard with weeks before the election washingtonpost has the latest What you need to know to start your day from the campaign trail to Europes migrant crisis. Via nytimes Stop procrastinating. Heres why now is the perfect time to ask your boss for more money via Bloomberg A case of Bud Light Either the best or worst bribe in history via FoxNews TopStories The Trump campaign admits its behind but vows to keep fighting and all of Sundays biggest news Prince Albert honors his late mother Grace Kelly by buying her childhood Philadelphia home via CBSNews A little prep work today and you can eat well all week via HuffingtonPost WATCH Tom Hanks helps SNL spoof the final debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton via Independent Everything you need to know about this weeks NFL matchups via ESPN A boiled egg is a work of artand science according to this extracrispy guide to perfectly boiled eggs Can a millennial mayor fight for peace in one of the worlds most violent cities Story via guardian In a new interview Anne Hathaway said she tried to pretend that she was happy about her Oscar win. Via THR What does the Time WarnerATampT merger mean for you Depends on who you ask. USATODAY gets a variety of opinions Our picks for weekend reading A trendy spot for your next vacation the case for bribing your kids and more Traveling or staying home for the holidays Heres what to expect from winter weather across America via CBSNews Wondering what caused todays internet outage and no it wasnt just you voxdotcom explains the delays Donald Glover is going to a galaxy far away VanityFair reports hell play Lando Calrissian in a Star Wars spinof Go behind the scenes with ladygaga in this revealing cover story from nytimes Start using your Sundays to prepare meals for the week ahead with this handy guide via HuffingtonPost New data shows it might be time to talk to your boss about a raise especially if youre a woman. Via business Extreme weather could put your favorite bottle of wine at risk. Heres why via CNN Heres the gracious letter George H.W. Bush sent to Bill Clinton after losing the election via CBSNews TopStoriesClinton and Trump exchange zingers at charity event the battle for Mosul intensifies and more The biggest meteor shower of the season starts early tomorrow morning. Find the best view via CBSNews NYCs most stylish dressed the part and celebrated the life of fashion photographer Bill Cunningham via Why buying always beats renting the case against ordering takeout and more all in our evening reads More posh lower price. Victoria Beckham announces a new Target collection. With kids clothes too Via TheCut Still need a Halloween costume for your pet Get inspired via USATODAY See Tom Cruise hilariously recreate his entire movie career with James Corden on latelateshow. Via CNN Its a highprofile breakup no one saw coming. MetLife dumps Snoopy Via WSJ Audra McDonald welcomes daughter Sally James reports USATODAY. Congrats AudraEqualityMc Bring on the lullabies. Busy last night You can watch the entire debate here via WIRED Could Donald Trump really contest the election results CNN takes a look at the law books Get caught up on all the biggest moments from last nights debate with our reader guide Who needs Ken Bone This debatenight spawned so many new memes. A primer via VFHIVE Bigly is trending bigly on Google right now via businessinsider debatenight Who was the best debate moderator USATODAY ranks them all. debtenight Trump refuses to say hell accept the election results I will look at it at the time via thehill debatenight Hillary Clinton says Russia supports Donald Trump because hes a puppet via BuzzFeed debatenight How are voters reacting to Clinton amp Trump Watch debatenight live in Apple News with voter sentiment via CNN. Heres what Donald Trump had to say about Roe v. Wade on debatenight via mic Trump says his immigration plan would remove bad bad people from U.S. via voxdotcom debatenight badhombres Mark Cuban and Rudy Giuliani got the sparring off to an early start in a predebatenight interview via CNN WATCH LIVE Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton go headtohead in their final debate video via FoxNews debatenight Will Trump amp Clinton answer the tough questions at debatenight washingtonpost poses potentially awkward querie Holiday travel doesnt have to break the bank. Try these easy moneysaving tips from nytimes Womenonly meat camp. Its a thing via WSJ Calling all frequent fliers. Heres a new airline rule youll be happy about via NPR Behold the real differences dividing our nation via TIME Get out your wallets parents. A new study says you should consider PAYING your kids to eat their veggies via WSJ .amyschumer has a few choice words for the Trump supporters who walked out of her Tampa show via Refinery Heres what to look for when Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump meet in their final showdown via CBSNews. debate High fashion meets high shine See Michelle Obamas knockout state dinner dress via vanityfair TopStoriesWhat to watch as Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump face off in the final presidential debate and more No need for debate drinking games. Try these relaxing poses instead. Via WSJ All three contestants managed to spin for on the Price Is Right. What are the chances mic investigates Dont know what to be for Halloween Check out this years mostGoogled costumes via Refinery Election polls are all over the place. Heres how to make sense of them via CNBC Watch Stephen Colbert help President Obama sharpen his job interview skills via TIME Get excited Today is NationalChocolateCupcakeDay. And of course Twitter rejoices via USATODAY TopStoriesBattle for Mosul continues Melania Trump defends her husband amid sexual misconduct allegations amp mor stories to read tonight The psychology behind I voted stickers how Chipotle plans to bounce back and more Are you known to overschedule and then flake on plans Try this radically different approach via nytimes Its a big week on the campaign trail with the third and final debate. Heres what to watch via washingtonpost Julian Assange Pamela Anderson and the vegan meal that launched conspiracy theories. FreeJulian Via CNN TopStoriesBattle begins to retake Mosul from ISIS Trump says the media is rigging the election and more Is there such a thing as too much Harry Potter or Star Wars Guess well find out Via qz Its a sad day for panda lovers. Jia Jia believed to be the oldest panda ever kept in captivity has died via Are you ready for some football Heres everything you need to know about this weeks NFL matchups via ESPN. TopStories SNL spoofs the second debate Colin Kaepernick prepares to start and all of Sundays biggest news. Dont have a Costco card These hidden benefits from USATODAY make a great case for getting one Banish the Monday blues with businesss clever tips to structuring weekends and finishing Sundays strong Our picks for weekend reading The most haunted places in America jobs with the best worklife balance and more Going glutenfree Be careful business reports that less gluten could mean more sugar salt fat What does WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange want Read snippets from his own statements over the years via WIRED Good news film fans tcm amp Criterion are launching a Netflixlike streaming service for classic films. Via WSJ Economic growth actually kills people according to a new study. Via washingtonpost Our favorites in food this week How McDonalds is courting millennials hearty fall soups and more Go inside the operating room of a surgery to separate monthold twins conjoined at the head. Via CNN TopStoriesPresident Obama continues to rally for Hillary Clinton United computer problem delays flights amp more Going to Cuba Read this guidewhich includes cheap flights the best bargains and honest resort reviewsfrom WSJ LOL . Comedian Chris Rock lands million for two upcoming specials on netflix . Via THR Got election anxiety According to a new study youre not alone. voxdotcom explains why Still waiting to buy holiday plane tickets CBSNews on why you shouldnt procrastinate any longer RT AppleMusic Help people affected by Hurricane Matthew by donating to RedCross With less than a month before Election Day online searchers for writein reached a record high. Via CNN Congrats Bob Dylan. Heres everything you need to know about his surprise NobelPrize win via TIME TopStoriesThe latest on the campaign trail Bob Dylan wins the Nobel Prize in Literature and more Amazons plans for grocery stores Obama talks A.I. and the life of Instagram husbands all in our evening reads Can bad behavior go viral guardian reports on why workplace rudeness can be contagious As creepy clown mania sweeps the nation Ronald McDonald is keeping a low profile via CNN President Obamas first order of business when he leaves the White House Sleep. Lots of sleep. Via TIME A heartbreaking look at the devastation Hurricane Matthew left behind in North Carolina via washingtonpost TopStories Hillary Clintons new campaign strategy the historymaking Chicago Cubs and more. Invisible insects are falling from trees in Kansas City and biting people. Bug spray isnt helping. Story via wsj Writer and BravoTopChef host PadmaLakshmi is savvy with spices. She shared her fried rice recipe with GQMagazine Why do dogs lick smelly toes and roll around in things that smell awful A new book investigates. Via nytimes Calling all workaholics A new startup is making sure you benefit from those unused vacation days. Via business Is fall your favorite season Youre not alone. HuffingtonPost on why were conditioned to love it President Obama vows Americans will travel to Mars and then return safely to Earth by the s. Via CNN TopStoriesHurricane Matthew evacuees trapped by flooding Samsung ends production of fireprone phone and more Dont stress about the five second rule. nytimes reveals that your floor may be cleaner than the kitchen counter More states are ditching ColumbusDay and renaming it Indigenous Peoples Day. Heres why via CNN Everything you need to know about last nights debate from the skipped handshake to fact checking the candidates TopStoriesTakeaways from last nights presidential debate major flooding looms after Hurricane Matthew and mor Relive the noholdsbarred presidential debate in just minutes via CNN Biggest shocker of the night Candidates manage to say one nice thing about each other via FoxNews Donald Trump says of course he used million writeoff to avoid paying taxes via BusinessInsider Debate Everyones talking about the fact that Trump and Clinton didnt shake hands to start debate via washingtonpost Donald Trump says Hillary Clinton would be in jail over deleted emails if he were in charge via CNBC The gloves are off. Donald Trump holds predebate press conference with Bill Clinton accusers via USATODAY WATCH LIVE Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump square off in the second debate at p.m. Eastern. debate Debate Five things to look for when Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton face off for the second time via ABC Give your money a makeover with these quick and painless tips to help you save more and spend less via USAToday Funny because its true Watch SNL and Alec Baldwin tackle Donald Trumps leaked tape via CNN Tom Brady is back washingtonpost explains why thats a good thing for the NFL no matter which team you cheer for. TopStories Everything you need to know this Sunday including what to look for at tonights presidential debate Benedict Cumberbatch fans rejoice the mindbending actor is profiled in this months VanityFair Why did the worlds oldest man celebrate his Bar Mitzvah years late Read NPR s story of tragedy and triumph Our picks for weekend reading A terrifying kidnapping that never happened how to retire at and more If you enjoy free stuff youll love this WSJ roundup of the countrys bestand worsthotel rewards programs HurricaneMatthew has killed over people. Learn why Haiti was particularly vulnerable via voxdotcom A recording of Donald Trump making vulgar comments about women has been published by washingtonpost Hate getting those pesky group text notifications on your phone Good news You can silence them. Via WSJ Our favorite food stories this week The reinvention of of Americas best restaurants easy cocktail ideas amp more About people are without power as Hurricane Matthew lashes Florida. Via washingtonpost TopStoriesThe latest updates on Hurricane Matthew Colombian president awarded the NobelPeacePrize and more All was still. Until it wasnt. One reporter describes being trapped in a Category hurricane via nytimes Is Snapchat worth billion The popular messaging app is considering an IPO next year. Story via TheAtlantic See Haiti postHurricaneMatthew a history of creepy clowns and the best of Oculus in tonights mustwatch videos A surprising new study links birth control pills to depression. Heres what you need to know via washingtonpost Brace yourself Bed Bath amp Beyonds famous off coupons might be going by the wayside. Via WSJ President Obama writes an open letter to his successor in TheEconomist about four areas of unfinished business TopStoriesMillions urged to evacuate as Hurricane Matthew nears the U.S. and more Cant wait for Halloween See a terrifying trailer for GetOut JordanPeele s horror film debut via GQMagazine Is this Edward Snowden . The FBI secretly arrests another NSA contractor for information theft via nytimes The Natalie Portman movie getting Oscar buzz HurricaneMatthew from space and more in tonights mustwatch videos The most heartbreaking story youll read today via washingtonpost Even the Supreme Court is talking about the Kim Kardashian robbery. No really. Via CNN Did you skip last nights VPDebate You are not alone according to CNN ThatMexicanThing takes on a life of its own after the debate via nytimes TopStoriesTakeaways from the vicepresidential debate the latest on Hurricane Matthews path and more Who came out on top after the VPdebate washingtonpost on the winners and losers What were the most memorable lines from tonights VPDebate ABC collects them here Weighed yourself lately Heres why October might be your skinniest month all year via washingtonpost WATCH LIVE in AppleNews timkaine and mikepence square off in the VPdebate. Video via CBSNews Should bosses try to hold on to their top performers A study found some of the best do just the opposite. Via WSJ Tim Kaine and Mike Pence wont actually be the focus of tonights VPDebate. nytimes on what to watch Will HurricaneMatthew strike the U.S. CNN on what you need to know TopStoriesMike Pence and Tim Kaine to face off in vicepresidential debate Supreme Court begins new term amp more With the MLB playoff matchups set SInow takes a look at the lingering questions facing each MLB team Theres absolutely nothing cool about jail and other insights from Lil Waynes prison diary via vulture Happy MeanGirls Day. Celebrate with these quotes from the beloved teen comedy via USATODAY Science says its true Having unattractive friends makes you look better via guardian There are hidden forces shaping your IQ reports BBCFuture. And its not as simple as nature v nurture. TopStories Everything you need to know this morning from Donald Trumps taxes to Kim Kardashian Wests robbery. Donald Trumps supporters rally around the candidate after his leaked tax return via Reuters October Halloween new stuff to stream. voxdotcom has scary amp notsoscary options on Netflix Hulu and HBO. Learn Ruth Bader Ginsbergs secret to a happy marriageand to getting along with her court colleagues via nytimes Can small talk boost your wellbeing According to studies idle chitchat might do you a world of good via WSJ. TopStories Donald Trumps leaked tax return bold NFL predictions and more. Our weekend reading picks The best outdoor travel adventures words youre probably mispronouncing and more Are big white shirts suddenly stylish washingtonpost on deconstructing simple staples at ParisFashionWeek Your Uber driver has arrived...somewhere. Heres how to make sure your ride doesnt pass you by via WSJ TopStoriesDebate officials confirm Trumps audio issues cause of death for American sisters revealed amp more Credit card issuers are rolling out their most lavish perks in years. nytimes on how to make the most of it Our favorite food stories this week A craft beer slowdown how blogs changed the restaurant business and more This yearold woman was born in an era when she couldnt vote and just cast a ballot for Clinton. Via CNN TopStoriesInvestigators search for clues in N.J. train crash amp world leaders attend funeral for Shimon Peres For one colorful night Reykjavik went dark as the NorthernLights made the skies green blue and purple via CNN If you live in a safe blue or red state can you make your vote for president count more nytimes finds out Theres going to be a rare black moon on Friday. Find out what the lunar event really means via NatGeo Its NationalCoffeeDay Heres how to get a free cup of joe and maybe even a doughnut. Via USATODAY Officials say at least one person died and about were injured after a commuter train crashed in NJ. Via nytimes TopStoriesHillary Clinton makes new push to win over young voters lawmakers avert government shutdown and more Hate performance reviews of HR managers say theres a better way to evaluate employees via NPR Heres why you shouldnt skip the gym tomorrow plus four other fascinating evening reads chosen by our editors. Worth wordsor at least characters. WSJ brings you the days best photos. Do you know how to pronounce GIF How about niche HuffingtonPost on some of the most commonly mispronounced words The real winners of Monday nights presidential debate The broadcast and cable networks. Story via washingtonpost Global air pollution is worse than you think. CNN explores an alarming new study. TopStoriesWorld leaders pay tribute to Shimon Peres fatal police shooting near San Diego sparks protests amp more Just in Former Israeli president and Nobel Peace Prize winner Shimon Peres has died at via nytimes Food prices are falling fast. But is the Great GroceryStore Giveaway a good thing markets takes a look Ready to fly to Mars Elon Musk is. Today the spacex founder revealed plans to colonize the Red Planet. Via NPR Now THATS a super bowl. voxdotcom breaks down the best breakfast cereals of all time. I told him it was a horrible idea. The story behind Jose Fernandezs fatal boating accident via YahooSports Key words like braggadocious and trumpedup spiked in online dictionary searches during debatenight. Via CNN Today is NationalVoterRegistrationDay. Find out how to sign up now via USATODAY TopStoriesRecapping the presidential debate Charlotte protesters call for mayor to resign and more Trying to make sense of last nights debate Get up to speed with our reader guide. Who won the debate Twitter weighs in on the showdown between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump via mic Memorable debatenight moments from the tense first meeting between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton via ABC Things get heated between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump on debatenight via CNN Watch live on AppleNews Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton face off in their first debate via CBSNews What to expect when Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump take the stage at p.m. ET via washingtonpost debatenight Imagine watching TV without paying for a clunky settop box. business on why the simple idea is so hard to execute Arnold Palmer will be remembered not only for golf but for his namesake drink. HuffingtonPost on how he created it Clinton and Trump will take the stage at p.m. ET. Here are key things to watch for on debatenight via nytimes TopStoriesTrump and Clinton to face off in Monday night debate remembering Arnold Palmer and more What to watch this fall voxdotcom breaks down the seven most promising TV comedies What Clinton and Trump should worry about for Mondays debate via washingtonpost Got brunch plans McDonalds is testing the allday breakfast Happy Meal via extracrispy TopStories yearold MLB star Jose Fernandez dies in boating accident and more The very best food stories this week from cooking in Julia Childs kitchen to tipping in ANY situation Cuddlers in Chief natgeo offers up a photo history of presidents and their pets Our weekend reading picks Fulfilling a travel bug why pets can boost your health amp more TopStoriesManhunt underway after gunman kills at Washington mall peaceful protests in Charlotte amp more TopStoriesGripping video of the fatal Charlotte shooting Ted Cruz changes his tune on Trump amp more How s classic Murder She Wrote became a modern day style inspiration via VanityFair So long Kevin Garnett. NBA stars pay tribute to the NBA superstar whos retiring after seasons via ForTheWin Planning a trip business explains why September is the best month to fly An inside look at what its like for reporters following the every move of Trump and Clinton via Refinery Yahoo has confirmed a massive data breach. washingtonpost outlines what to do if you have an account TopStoriesCharlotte protests continue for third night Yahoo confirms data breach amp more Are you a Yahoo user USATODAY explains what you should do about that massive hack Could the rioting in Charlotte sway voters in swing state of North Carolina business investigates Theyre smarter than you. And everything else you need to know about the MacArthur Genius Grant winners via WSJ Obama sits down for an exit interview to discuss his legacy and life after the White House. Via VanityFair Watch a yearold boy read a letter asking Obama to let a Syrian refugee join his family. Via Independent The cast of West Wing is hitting the campaign trail again this time for Hillary Clinton. Via USATODAY TopStoriesState of emergency declared in Charlotte amid violent protests and more A new report finds million Americans could be exposed to dangerously contaminated drinking water via CNN Heres what divorce lawyers say is next for Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt via latimes An inside look at how Clinton is preparing to compete against Trump in Mondays presidential debate via WSJ TopStoriesProtests erupt in Charlotte after fatal police shooting and more Cant get to the gym You can do group fitness from home. nytimes on the rise of virtual exercise classes Heres how fans are reacting to the news that Angelina Jolie filed for divorce from Brad Pitt via USATODAY Heres what Trump amp Clinton are saying about national security following this weekends series of attacks. Via WSJ TopStoriesOfficials search for suspects motive behind attacks in New York amp New Jersey How long until your office goes paperless WSJ investigates a possible shift thats been talked about for decades Whats the key to success on Wall Street Trusting your gut might be more important than you think. Via nytimes Heres what we know so far about the weekend blasts in New York and New Jersey. Via CNN TopStoriesManhunt underway after police name suspect in connection with New York bombing Emily Blunt reveals how she transformed into an alcoholic loner to film The Girl on the Train. Via nytimes Should you follow the fivesecondrule when you drop food Scientists have taken up the case. Via NatGeo Ready for tonights Emmys Heres everything you need to know before they start TopStoriesNew York City explosion injures mayor says it was an intentional act Apple News is new for iOS . Update now to find all the stories you want to read. Our picks for weekend reading The best fall trips a popular trend in healthy eating amp more Restaurant amp bar insiders explain how much to tip depending on where you go and what you order via washingtonpost Theres still time to brush up on the shows nominated for this weekends Emmys. nytimes rounds up what to watch Our favorite food stories The truth about the sugar industry gourmet school lunches amp more TopStoriesTrump and his campaign give different messages on Obamas birthplace amp more Ahead of Sundays Emmys experts from VanityFair predict the winners This years flu vaccine is already at pharmacies but some doctors warn the immunity may not last. Via NPR edit New polls suggest a trend in the presidential race that may set off alarm bells for Democrats via voxdotcom TopStoriesClinton and Trump release medical details amp Obama to create new marine monument Should the new year start in September WSJ says the end of summer motivates many to start freshread why Since America spent nearly trillion going to war. Is the country any safer NYMag has answers Need context for HillaryClintons basket of deplorables comment voxdotcom gives a good explanation Hot off the press Apple News is new for iOS . Find all the stories you want to read. Do you dread icebreakers Youre not alone. But thescienceofus explains why they can actually work really well Uber began testing selfdriving cars in Pittsburgh today. CNN details what its like behind the wheel Heres what Colin Powell said about Trump and Clinton in email exchanges leaked online. Via nytimes TopStoriesTrump Foundation under investigation Clinton to rejoin campaign trail amp more Roald Dahl wouldve been today. As BBCCulture found the beloved childrens book author had quite a dark side Planning a trip CNTraveler lists of the best travel tips of all timeof all timehere Edward Snowden says he performed a public service. Should POTUS pardon him guardian has the exclusive Peoples instincts on saving money are often mistaken. Heres how to up your pennypinching game via nytimes Ready to vote for the next president CNN rounds up the states where you can submit a ballot before Election Day How much should presidential candidates reveal about their health latimes reports on past disclosures and secrets TopStoriesClinton faces scrutiny over health amp protesters crash Lochtes DWTS debut New research reveals how the sugar industry has been shaping American diets for years via voxdotcom TopStoriesTrump blasts Clinton for deplorables comment violence erupts in Syria amp more IKEA is upping its design but not its prices. nytimes goes inside the companys latest effort to stay essential The first presidential general election debate is in weeks. voxdotcom examines how much they actually matter Hillary Clinton has been diagnosed with pneumonia. Is it a serious health concern washingtonpost explains TopStoriesClinton cancels California trip after pneumonia diagnosis Sully has big opening weekend and more In a captivating account one woman details her escape from the World Trade Center years ago. Via Refinery Students starting high school now were not yet born on Sept. . USATODAY on the challenges teachers face Firefighters who rushed into the World Trade Center reflect on how their lives have changed since that day via CNN TopStories Trump and Clinton mark anniversary of attacks at Ground Zero amp more The harrowing journey of Air Force One after the attacks as told by the people on board. Via politico From fish fraud to tips on food photography here are this weeks best food stories. To get through the supermarket line quickly stand behind someone with a full cart. Seriously. Via nytimes Why is everyone freaking out about the GilmoreGirls reboot Actress Lauren Graham has a theory. Via HuffingtonPost From the Paralympics to the latest from the campaign trail CNN recaps the week in photos Our picks for weekend reading How a young billionaire lost it all the worlds healthiest diets and more TopStoriesClinton says half of Trumps supporters are in basket of deplorables Need some fall reading nytimes starts you off with nine book recommendations Hillary Clinton gave a rare deeply personal interview to the popular blog Humans of New York. Via guardian Elon Musk has taken to Twitter to seek clues about the SpaceX explosion from thirdparty footage. Via TechCrunch TopStoriesNorth Korea conducts fifth nuclear test amp Serena Williams loses at U.S. Open To combat racism AirBnB plans to diversify its workforce amp punish hosts who dont follow new rules via LATimes NFLKickoff is tonight. Heres what you need to know from teambyteam predictions to mustwatch games amp more Reluctant to work out Consider this A new study found just walking more could save you a year. Via nytimes After Gary Johnsons Aleppo gaffe voxdotcom explains the Syrian city for presidential candidates and nonexperts The key quotes you may have missed from last nights ClintonTrump foreign policy forum via guardian TopStoriesMatt Lauer faces criticism over ClintonTrump forum amp Rio Paralympics kicks off New episodes of StrangerThings are coming. Heres what you need to know about the second season via voxdotcom Is there a sixth taste Maybeand it might explain our passion for pasta as TheCut reports TopStoriesApple unveils iPhone Ferguson activist found dead in car amp more How many cups of coffee do you need to wake up One turbopowered brew could keep you buzzing for hours via CNN The final stretch of the general election has begun. voxdotcom breaks down where the big races stand TopStoriesTrump amp Clinton to appear at national security forum amp U.S.Russian crew lands after days in space The minivan has a reputation for being very uncool. But the soccermom car is having a major moment. Via business The week in science amp tech Flooding of U.S. coastline the future of hoverboards amp more The Paralympics start Wednesday in Rio. Check out a guide from CNN for the stars to watch TopStoriesClinton Trump focus on battleground states as race hits home stretch and more To mark the unofficial end of summer CNN looks back at an eventual amp tumultuous months. Looking for new shows to watch voxdotcom rounds up whats streaming in September If you went a little too hard with cookouts amp cocktails this summer DelishDotCom has tips for detoxing TopStoriesObama plays down plane stairs issue soccer star kneels during anthem amp more Go behind the scenes of SNL with one of the last original crew members via VanityFair Cooking a Labor Day feast These delicious recipes from FoodNetwork will help you savor summers end Our picks for weekend reading A new side of Amy Schumer debunking nine health myths amp more TopStoriesFBI files give new details on Clinton email probe amp Hermine moves up East Coast Hillary Clintons online branding is governed by a design language called Pantsuit. Seriously. Story via WIRED Now that commercial flights are running traveling to Cuba is much easier. CNTraveler has tips to plan your trip TopStoriesFBI releases files from Clinton email probe antibacterial soap banned amp more A football stars choice to eat lunch with a boy with autism has gone viral. Via nytimes Our favorites in food Gene Wilders surprising effect on chefs pizza drone delivery amp more How did Trump settle on a position for his muchanticipated immigration speech washingtonpost takes a closer look TopStoriesHermine batters Florida coast amp jobs report shows momentum slowed in August Why is the Labrador retriever the most popular dog breed voxdotcom explains how trends have changed over time Georgetown University will give slave descendants an edge in admissions. nytimes details how and why The SpaceX rocket explosion this morning could be a big setback for the company qz reports TopStoriesTrump details immigration plans amp Florida braces for Tropical Storm Hermine Its official Netflixs Stranger Things is coming back for a second season. See the teaser here via WIRED TopStoriesTrump says he and Mexican president talked border wall amp Bill Nye gets new show Are elephants going to face the same fate as dinosaurs CNN investigates Heres everything you need to know about Trumps surprise visit to Mexico via voxdotcom The first U.S. commercial flight in decades has arrived in Cuba via USATODAY TopStoriesTrump to meet with Mexicos president ahead of immigration speech amp more TopStories ISIS leader is killed in Syria Google takes on Uber in ridesharing and more Aging starts sooner than you might think. WSJ explains what to expect before you qualify for Social Security. Our favorites in science amp tech Solving a mysterious death amp how your dogs brain works Rick Perry and Ryan Lochte are going to face off in Dancing With the Stars next season. Via TIME TopStoriesHuma Abedin in the spotlight Trump makes largest ad buy to date and more Stuck at your desk for long periods One expert explains the best way to sit via WSJ After outrage over EpiPen price hikes a generic version is coming to market at a discount. Via CNN Heres what you missed at the VMAs from a list of the winners to the best of the red carpet TopStoriesTrump announces immigration speech loud noises cause LAX evacuation amp more Tonights VMAs britneyspears to perform kanyewest to speak amp Beyonce nominated for awards via USATODAY Our favorites in travel How to score a spot in first class amp experience Paris like a local Just in Chicago police have arrested men in connection with the shooting death of Dwyane Wades cousin via CNN TopStoriesSouthwest flight makes emergency landing after engine fails amp more years after tragedy struck a beautiful new Sandy Hook Elementary opens to students on Monday via FastCompany The earthquake in Italy airstrikes in Syria amp more. CNN recaps the week in photos Our picks for weekend reading The science of cute animal photos amp Rene Zellwegers return TopStories ISIS appears weakened NBA stars cousin shot while pushing stroller amp more Caring for lifelike robot babies is supposed to curb teen pregnancy. It appears the opposite is happening. Via WSJ How Brexit combined with flooding in China have raised the price of bacon on British breakfast tables via qz TopStoriesFDA takes radical Zika measures a nasty week in presidential politics amp more Our favorites in food this week Soda politics recreating the perfect bagel amp more In honor of WomensEqualityDay CNN looks back on the history of the Equal Rights Amendment A French court has suspended the burkini ban. voxdotcom explains the debate over the fullbody swimsuits TopStoriesHopes fade for Italy quake survivors amp Brazilian police charge Ryan Lochte TopStories Clinton and Trump exchange accusations of racism amp NPS celebrates a birthday Two Orlando hospitals wont charge survivors of the Pulse nightclub attack for outofpocket expenses via FoxNews Singapore has become the first country to launch a selfdriving taxi service beating out U.S. tech giants. Via WSJ In honor of NPS Planning your first national park visit how to avoid the crowds amp more TopStoriesDeath toll in Italy earthquake nears as search for survivors continues Office Spacestyle printer bashing is all the rage at corporate retreats. Story via WSJ Working from home is on the rise but heading into an oldfashioned office has its perks too. Via qz TopStoriesItaly quake death toll rises to Earthlike planet found close by amp more A new nytimes forecast shows Democrats have a percent chance of retaking the Senate Our favorites in science amp tech The truth about charging your phone overnight amp why roborecruiting is on the rise Rescuers are still searching for victims of the ItalyEarthquake. Heres how you can help via CNN TopStoriesItaly earthquake kills dozens Trump signals softening on immigration amp more Need a quick catch up before your favorite TV show returns for the fall vulture has this helpful cheat sheet Our editors picks for your fantasy football draft Sleepers rookies to watch amp more TopStoriesObama tours Louisiana flood damage outrage over EpiPen price hike amp more Why feeling angry or envious may sometimes be good for you via WSJ Many scientists are concerned the Zika outbreak in Florida may be more widespread than it seems. NPR reports A presidential visit following a natural disaster has become the norm. Heres why via washingtonpost TopStoriesObama to survey Louisiana flood damage Russia banned from Paralympics amp more Telling someone to relax typically has the opposite effect. Heres what you should do instead via WSJ TopStoriesNew Clinton emails to be released Trump delays immigration speech amp more Trump has vowed to deport immigrants who entered the U.S. illegally. Now hes shifting his tone via nytimes Ryan Lochte has lost his Speedo sponsorhip. MONEY says hell likely lose millions due to robbery scandal Recapping Rio of the most memorable moments the closing ceremony and more RT THR Get the latest Hollywood news via THRs AppleNews channel follow here TopStoriesRio Olympics ends Louisiana governor pleads for aid after floods and more Authorities are cracking down on fake presidential candidates like Forest Gump and Jesus Christ via ABC Dentists recommend avoiding these foods to maintain your pearly whites via FoodNetwork TopStories Turkish officials blame ISIS for wedding blast that killed at least amp more Why do huge boxes arrive on your doorstep for tiny items WSJ explains the mystery From the final competitions in Rio to Louisina flooding CNN recaps your week in photos Our picks for weekend reading The worlds happiest countries amp the science of single people TopStoriesControversy continues over U.S. swimmers Usain Bolt wins th gold medal amp more Anxiety is mounting in Miami where Zika fears are keeping some expectant mothers in selfimposed exile via WSJ Our favorite food stories this week Feeding Rios homeless and breakfast in a jar TopStoriesCDC expands Zika warning in Miami Trump visits Louisiana and more Ryan Lochte has finally corralled the spotlight from Michael Phelps. But not in the way he hoped. Via nytimes Louisiana flooding was the worst disaster to hit U.S. since Superstorm Sandy. guardian on the rebuilding process Just in Donald Trumps campaign chairman resigns following staff shakeup via nytimes TopStoriesTrump expresses regret amp Clinton Foundation to change if Hillary Clinton wins TopStories Brazilian police contest U.S. swimmers allegations amp DOJ changes prison policy Olympians may be happier if they win a bronze medal instead of a silver. CNN explains the surprising finding A startling image of a Syrian child injured in airstrike has highlighted the desperation of civil war. Via guardian Brazilian officials say four U.S. swimmers made up the story about being robbed at gunpoint. Via NYTimes TopStoriesLouisiana flood death toll hits amp Brazil pulls U.S. swimmers off plane The case against starting your emails with I hope youre well via TheCut Does your office turn into a ghost town in August That means its a great time to do deep work. Via business TopStoriesInside the Trump campaign reshuffle latest on Ryan Lochte robbery case amp more A renowned chef used leftover Olympics food to supply a gourmet soup kitchen for Rios homeless via washingtonpost Michael Phelps says hes truly ready to retire now because his Olympics was perfect. Via YahooSports deaths people rescued homes damaged. CNN looks at the LouisianaFlood by the numbers TopStoriesTrump overhauls campaign team amp California wildfire forces massive evacuations Want to feel slightly less miserable in the summer heat Then ease up on the AC. Story via thescienceofus Simone Biles wins gold in floor exercise her th gold in Rio. Aly Raisman earns silver. Via USATODAY What do most athletes do after the Olympics The options are not so glamorous. washingtonpost reports U.S. sprinter Allyson Felix lost a gold because her opponent dove for the finish. voxdotcom explains the risky move TopStoriesPentagon announces largest transfer of Guantanamo inmates under Obama amp more Share your political views on social media if you want but youre probably not changing anyones mind. Via WIRED How tight is Rio security One U.S. athletes mom had a suitcase blown up after it was left unattended. Via nytimes TopStoriesTrump proposes extreme vetting of immigrants Milwaukee begins curfew amp more Stop squeezing every tomato at the market. Its not even the best way to determine ripeness. Via washingtonpost Does taking a break from training give Olympians an edge It seemed to work for Michael Phelps. WSJ reports Find out how you can help victims of the LouisianaFlood via CNN TopStoriesAt least dead in Louisiana flooding violent protests rock Milwaukee amp more Theres a name for that throbbing sound your car makes when only one window is open. wsj explains whats going on Fed up with all the boastful vacation photos your friends post on social media nytimes explores the phenomenon. Our favorites in travel The key to family trips jetsetting like the Kardashians amp more TopStoriesUnrest in Milwaukee after police shooting day of key finals in Rio amp more Michael Phelps wins gold in his last Olympic race ending his career with a record medals gold. Via SInow Our picks for weekend reading The future of breakfast honeymoon hotspots amp more TopStories More hacked DNC information released Ledecky keeps winning at Rio and more A Kentucky judge has gone viral twice for her courtroom kindness. She calls the attention mindboggling. Via CNN TopStoriesConviction overturned in Making a Murderer case and Clinton releases tax info Security lapses stray bullets and discolored pools. A host of glitches are straining Rios Olympics via WSJ Our favorite food stories this week A scandal over vegan mayo Olympian diets and more People were flying out of their seat belts. JetBlue turbulence puts at least two dozen in the hospital via CNN RT AOLNews Use your iPhone iPad or iPod touch to follow on AppleNews TopStoriesMichael Phelps wins nd gold Trump and Clinton spar over economy and more One of musics hottest acts follow Chance the Rapper as he reaches the next level via billboard TopStories Simone Biles wins gold at Rio Trump doubles down on ISIS comments and more Macys to close stores as it faces competition from online retailers amp changes in shopping habits via USATODAY From snacks to legroom to fares Delta American and United are increasingly the same. WSJ explains why. TopStoriesTrump calls Obama founder of ISIS amp U.S. gymnast Simone Biles chases nd gold Concerned by the Tesla Autopilot crash One business writer clarifies what the technology does and doesnt do From green pools to cupping and more CNN selects the most memorable Rio photos so far TopStoriesMan apprehended scaling Trump Tower second Olympic pool turns green amp more Our favorites in science amp tech investigating cupping and the value of flawed memories The U.S. womens gymnastics team cruised to gold in Rio. TIME explains how they became so dominant TopStoriesU.S. swimmers Phelps amp Ledecky win gold Delta still canceling flights amp more Like her Netflix series Stranger Things Winona Ryder is a throwback to everything cool about the s. Via TheCut Beloved by some scorned by others the man bun is everywhere at the Olympics wsj reports TopStoriesTrumps controversial remarks about gun owners U.S. women win gymnastics gold Led by Simone Biles the U.S. womens gymnastics team has won its ndstraight Olympic gold medal. Via CNN How do gymnastics judges find those pesky deductions in what looks like perfection HuffingtonPost explains Obama noshes on almonds. Trump loves fast food. CNN looks at the eating habits of political leaders over time Michael Phelps game face in Rio has become the meme of the moment. Via TIME TopStoriesMustwatch events in Rio GOP senator says she wont vote for Trump and more Snoop Dogg and Martha Stewart have signed on to cohost a cooking show on VH. Yes you read that right. Via THR Think all Olympians are rich Heres why many are scrambling to scrape together funds via BBCCapital TopStoriesDeadly suicide bombing in Pakistan Trump reveals economic plan and more Is there any logic to your companys pay structure Some firms are rethinking how they set worker salaries. Via WSJ Michael Phelps is among many Olympians sporting red bruises from cupping. CNN explains the ancient therapy Clashes over economic policy Paul Ryan faces primary amp more. washingtonpost looks ahead to this week in politics TopStoriesSwimmers amp gymnasts compete in Rio Japans emperor hints at abdicating amp more Find out whats really causing those dreaded bags under your eyes via BBCFuture Do you order in every night Skip the delivery and try these simple homecooked meals from DelishDotCom Is it actually possible to get a perfect credit score The experts weigh in. Alex Rodriguez to play final game for Yankees on Friday after year MLB career. th on alltime HR list. Via espn TopStoriesWhat to watch on day of the Olympics U.S. releases drone policy and more The case for holding the Olympics in the same place every time is stronger than you might think via TheAtlantic Meet a noodle stall chef in Singapore who just received one of the culinary worlds highest honors via guardian Our picks for weekend reading The ultimate family trip why we forget peoples names amp more TopStories The Olympics kick off in Rio Trump endorses Ryan in push for unity and more Inside the tense expensive process of turning Suicide Squad into the film that hit theaters this week via THR Find out how to watch the Olympics on everything from a tablet to a virtual reality headset with this WSJ guide TopStories Trump expected to endorse Ryan jobs report shows widening recovery and more Health experts answer your questions about Zika and debunk myths about the virus via FoxNews Our favorite food stories this week Cooking for Olympians mastering the mojito amp more Its almost time for Rios OpeningCeremony. Take a look back at highlights from previous years via voxdotcom TopStoriesOlympics begin amid problems U.S. releases strong jobs report and more Women outnumber men on the U.S. Olympic team and are favored for more medals. Title IX is a big reason why. Via NPR Today is President Obamas th birthday. He celebrated by declaring himself to be a feminist. Via businessinsider TopStories Kerry says U.S. doesnt pay ransoms Ryan stands by Trump endorsement and more Our editors have rounded up everything you need to know ahead of the Olympic Games A new NPR poll finds Americans have their blinders on when it comes to healthy diets J.K. Rowling does it again Her new Harry Potter script sold more than million copies in days. Via TIME TopStoriesLondon police investigate motive in stabbing attack that killed injured Step inside the worlds most trickedout private jumbo jets via wsj Baseball and softball are back in the Olympics. Theyre among five sports added for the Tokyo games via espn TopStoriesPence splits with Trump on Ryan endorsement Phelps to carry flag in Rio amp more Overjoyed by the news that flossing might be unnecessary Heres why you should probably do it anyway via WIRED Do you have trouble remembering names Youre not alone and science can help explain why. Via thescienceofus Get ready for the Olympics to start on Friday with this list of daily mustsee events via SInow TopStories top DNC officials leave Meg Whitman endorses Hillary Clinton amp more Take a tour of Brazil beyond the Olympic Stadium to these stunning places via harpersbazaarus The Constitution became an Amazon bestseller after a speech by a Muslim soldiers father at the DNC. Via thehill Heres what the CDCs recent travel warning over Zika means for pregnant women via NPR TopStoriesBuffett takes on Trump FBI employee pleads guilty to being agent of China Why do we hold fast to our opinions even when theyre wrong New research could help explain via NPR More than new emoji are coming to the iPhone this fall. TIME has a sneak peek TopStories Clinton retakes lead in new poll CDC issues Zika travel warning for Florida Is the open office plan here to stay Heres what new research found about ideal seating arrangements. Via business There are fewer than days before the presidential election. Heres whats coming up via washingtonpost The Olympics are notorious for leaving behind burdensome buildings. Rio is trying to buck the trend. Via WIRED TopStoriesTrumps confrontation with Muslim soldiers parents escalates and more Running into an ex in a business setting can be extra awkward. wsj has these tips for how to handle it like a pro. Who will be the heroes of the Rio Olympics guardian introduces us to athletes to watch. Here are the lavish perks that hotels are keeping a secret TopStoriesTrump faces backlash over comments about Muslim parents of dead U.S. soldier The father of a slain Muslim soldier gave one of the most memorable speeches at the DNC. politico tells his story Scenes from the Democratic National Convention and more as CNN recaps the week in photos Our picks for weekend reading What pets do when left alone how to sound smart amp more TopStories Brothers arrested in Belgian terror probe Navy to honor gay rights icon amp more Bill Clintons DNC speech has brought attention to a littleknown preschool program. NPR takes a closer look Researchers in Michigan recreated a murder victims fingerprint and successfully unlocked his phone via qz TopStories Clinton campaign reportedly hacked four U.S. Zika cases confirmed and more Buy those lottery tickets The next drawing for the fifthlargest Powerball jackpot is Saturday. Via washingtonpost Our favorite food stories this week Bad news for drinkers a secret code to cooking amp more The DemConvention teed up Clintons optimistic view of America. CNN has key takeaways edited TopStoriesClinton makes history accepting Democratic nomination for president amp more Watch Hillary Clintons historic acceptance speech and all the action from the DemConvention live via voxdotcom Gilmore Girls fans can rejoice Theres finally a premiere date for the shows Netflix revival. Via Slate A lawyer bought for in . Now he wants to sell it for . Via CNN Night of the DemConvention featured speeches by Obama Biden amp more. nytimes rounds up what you missed TopStoriesObama passes torch to Clinton on night of the Democratic convention and more Once known for fart jokes HowardStern now trades in revealing introspective celebrity interviews. Via nytimes TopStoriesTrump calls on Russia to find Clinton emails amp previewing Obamas DNC speech An intrepid Pokmon Go player has already beat the game. Find out how he did it via Refinery Remember the Ice Bucket Challenge It helped fund an important research breakthrough for ALS. Via mic After day of the DemConvention washingtonpost rounds up the winners and losers Just in Prosecutors drop all remaining charges against officers in Freddie Gray case. Via CNN Just in John Hinckley Jr. who tried to kill President Reagan in will be freed. Via washingtonpost TopStoriesHillary Clinton makes history Obama to speak at DemConvention amp more Um almost everybody uses filler words. Luckily research suggests theyre like not that bad. Via TheCut Bill Clinton speaks at DemConvention tonight. npr looks at what role he might play in his wifes White House TopStoriesHillary Clinton is the st woman to be nominated for president by a major party Our favorite science amp tech stories How Yahoo fell behind ditching D movie glasses amp more Ahead of the Rio Olympics next week NPR rounds up some of the best storylines of American athletes It was a busy first day at the DemConvention. Watch all the most talked about moments in seconds via CNN TopStoriesDemocrats struggle to unify during opening night of convention and more One Slate reporter sets out to discover the source of Hillary Clintons historic unlikeability A deeply troubled Michael Jordan is donating million to fight racial violence. Via washingtonpost TopStories Bernie Sanders supporters boo Hillary after email revelations DemsInPhilly Rios Olympic Village has opened its doors but safety concerns have some athletes refusing to move in. Via CNN Highprofile speakers and the search for party unity. Heres whats on tap at the DNCinPHL Yahoos sale to Verizon marks the end of an era for a web pioneer. Get caught up on all the details from voxdotcom TopStoriesShooting in Florida kills and wounds more than a dozen Here are eight of the dirtiest spots in your kitchen via FoodNetwork Just in Democratic party leader Debbie Wasserman Schultz resigns after leaked email furor via reuters. Get your passport ready. UNESCO just updated its list of the worlds most fascinating places via NatGeo TopStoriesClinton amp Kaine make debut Olympic officials announce verdict on Russia amp more Are you a good saver Heres why people are typically terrible at holding onto their money StarTrekBeyond continues the franchises long history of embracing diversity in its characters via washingtonpost Our picks for weekend reading The road to Rio Harry Potters second act and more TopStories Hillary Clinton selects a running mate DNC emails are leaked and more Roger Ailes run at Fox News has ended following sexual harassment allegations. NPR reports on his impact on media Just in Hillary Clinton has selected Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia as her running mate via nytimes TopStoriesThe latest on the Munich shooting Verizon nears deal to buy Yahoo and more Conquer the perfect wave at some of the best surfing spots on the planet. Via business Developing At least people dead in a shooting spree at a German mall attackers still at large. Via BBCNews Time to convert all those old family videos. The lastknown VCR maker is ending production. Via NPR RT MotorTrend Teslas Secret Master Plan Part Deux Details Electric Pickup Semis AppleNews The British royals released adorable photos of Prince George for his rd birthday. Via CNN TopStoriesDonald Trump accepts Republican presidential nomination amp more Donald Trump humbly and gratefully accepts presidential nomination on final night of GOP convention via cnn Our favorite food stories this week A breakthrough sugar substitute growing veggies amp more Ivanka Trumps goal in her RNCinCLE speech tonight Improve her fathers image among women voters via WSJ TopStories Trump seeks to unify party in RNC speech Roger Ailes out at Fox News amp more American gymnast Simone Biles is favored to win Olympic gold. HuffingtonPost shows us why Donald Trump wants America to reconsider its approach to international diplomacy. Read his nytimes interview Watch Michelle Obama crush it on Carpool Karaoke with James Corden via mic TopStoriesDonald Trump to give speech on final night of convention and more Did Donald Trump consider offering the VP spot to John Kasich Some are wondering after this nytimes article TopStories Trump staffer accepts responsibility for Melania Trumps speech and more Twitter has changed its policy for getting your account verified. mic explains how to apply Did you watch last nights speeches at the Republican Convention CNN puts the speakers claims to the test Remember Garry Marshalls influential career with this roundup of some of his best scenes via HuffingtonPost TopStoriesRepublican Party officially picks Donald Trump as presidential nominee amp more Our favorite science amp tech stories Finding future criminals banana extinction amp more years ago he was in a coma. Now hes an Olympian. washingtonpost has swimmer Chase Kaliszs inspiring story After day of the Republican Convention nytimes rounds up four key takeaways RNCinCLE TopStoriesRepublicans appeal to their partys base as convention kicks off amp more He really doesnt fire people. politico on the surprising reality of working for Donald Trump Kanye West appears to have secretly recorded a phone call with Taylor Swift and the internet is ablaze via TIME TopStoriesAntiTrump delegates lose floor vote at Republican Convention amp more Get up to speed on the Republican Convention with our Editors Picks reader guide Pokmon Go experts are already trying to cash in by selling their accounts to newbies via WSJ The GOP convention starts today. voxdotcom rounds up everything you need to know RNCinCLE TopStoriesNation reacts after three Baton Rouge officers killed RNC begins amp more Developing BatonRouge police officers shot dead others wounded suspect dead others may be at large cnn Our favorites in travel this week Unplugging from work Pokmons effect on tourism amp more RT business Relive your past days of gaming glory with Nintendos NES Classic Edition TopStoriesTrump introduces Pence as GOP heads to Cleveland arrests in Nice attack amp more Have you ever met your doppelgnger Heres how likely you are to find your exact lookalike via BBCFuture From Nice to Baton Rouge and beyond CNN recaps a tumultuous week in photos Our picks for weekend reading The rise of Marie Kondo finding your doppelgnger amp more TopStories ISIS claims responsibility for Nice attack Turkish coup appears to fail amp more Inside the mad dash to clean debris out of Rios Guanabara Bay where Olympic sailors are set to race via WIRED The U.S. government releases longclassified documents on Saudi Arabias ties to the attacks via CNN TopStoriesTurkish prime minister says military coup is underway amp more Our favorite food stories this week How the Pokmon craze is affecting restaurants amp more The truck of death. Witnesses describe the attack in France via washingtonpost Heres how world leaders are responding to the NiceAttack via CNN Heres what you need to know about Donald Trumps pick for vice president via voxdotcom Just in Donald Trump names Indiana Gov. Mike Pence as his running mate via nytimes TopStoriesAt least people killed after truck plows into crowd in Nice France Developing At least people are dead after a truck drove into a crowd in the French city of Nice via guardian Why do the results of political polls vary so much How predictive are they washingtonpost breaks it down Nominations for the Emmys are out See if your favorites made the cut via HuffingtonPost The man behind Pokmon Go talks about the games runaway success via TIME TopStoriesThousands mourn Dallas officers Theresa May picks top cabinet jobs amp more Get ready for tonights season premiere of MrRobot with this guide from mic The success of PokemonGO is being hailed as a breakthrough for augmented reality technology WSJ reports TopStoriesNew U.K. prime minister takes office first funerals for Dallas officers amp more In need of a vacation A new poll finds that many Americans arent taking advantage of their days off via NPR Case closed. After more than years the FBI has stopped investigating a legendary skyjacking case via Reuters AllStar Game singer sparks backlash by altering Canadian anthem to include All Lives Matter via washingtonpost TopStoriesTheresa May to become U.K. prime minister as David Cameron steps down amp more The AL wins its th straight MLB AllStar game with a victory over the NL via SBNation TopStoriesObama speaks at Dallas memorial amp the nations largest bank raises minimum pay Britain is set to get a new leader tomorrow. CNN explains what you need to know about Theresa May Todays Amazon PrimeDay tests whether the tech giant has the power to invent its own retail holiday via WIRED Our favorite science amp tech stories The essential PokemonGo survival guide amp more After a month nomination fight Bernie Sanders officially endorses Hillary Clinton for president via nytimes TopStoriesBeijing claims in South China Sea rejected by international tribunal and more Private jets and a dinner bill Inside Bill Clintons lucrative speaking engagements via latimes A photo of a womans arrest in Baton Rouge has gone viral. Story via washingtonpost TopStoriesShooting at Michigan courthouse SampP hits alltime high and more The spoiler wars are heating up. A new service lets you anonymously ruin the surprise for your friends via WSJ Tim Duncan is retiring from the NBA after years. His teammates and famous opponents bid farewell via SBNation Ready to score deals during tomorrows Amazon Prime Day CNN explains everything you need to know Teens used Pokeman Go to rob victims after luring them to a specific location police say. Via guardian Just in British PM David Cameron will resign Wednesday officially passing the job to Theresa May. Via BBCNews TopStoriesDallas police chief says shooter had plans for larger attacks and more Just in Theresa May is set to become Britains next prime minister after rival quits the leadership race via CNN POR wins EuroFinal vs. host nation FRA in extra time. Portugals st European Championship. Via guardian TopStories President Obama tries to calm a tense nation as protests continue this weekend. People are so into the new PokemanGO game that theyre ending up in the ER with injuries. Via washingtonpost From the NASAJuno probe to the police shootings in Dallas CNN recaps the week in photos. Our picks for weekend reading An idyllic summer road trip finding meaning at work amp more Serena Williams wins the WimbledonFinals tyi