A new commandment I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you that you also love one another. John The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil RT LifeLimits Favorite words besides Whats for Dinner. Get it here gt If your enemy is hungry give him food to eat if he is thirsty give him water to drink. Proverbs RT llovmydog So sweet look at those eyes. We know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John One who trusts in the Lord is secure. Proverbs . Make decisions based on what you know rather than what you feel. Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs . And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy If we live by the Spirit let us also be guided by the Spirit. Gala . A wise man is full of strength and a man of knowledge enhances his might. Proverbs When life is tough PRAY. When life is great PRAY. The Spirit gives life the flesh counts for nothing. The words I have spoken to you they are full of the Spirit amp life. John Truly I tell you whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers amp sisters of mine you did for me. Matthew You never really know yourself until you see yourself under pressure. Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews RT llovmydog Aww look at that face. O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Isaiah RT FwJesus Dont give up on the things God has placed in your heart. Keep pushing amp praying he will direct you. God has a blessing with your name on it. RT JarridWilson Your greatest failure can be used and redeemed by God as your greatest comeback. If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians RT LifeLimits Coffee amp Dog. gt For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer RT FwJesus Add some new bling to your wardrobe this summer get em while they last I sought the Lord amp He answered me amp delivered me from all my fears. Look to Him amp be radiant. Psalm Let us always meet each other with a smile for the smile is the beginning of love. Mother Teresa RT FaithReeI Gone Viral Reba McEntires New Song Back To God Is So Good It Gave Us Chills. Clickgtgtgtgt Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Proverbs The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own but the Father who dwells in me does his works. John . Protect me God when I take refuge in you Psalm RT FamousWomen YOU ARE YOU REALLY ARE Whatever God calls you to do He equips you to do as well. I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm RT FaithReeI You Dont Mess With A Lioness amp Her Cubs Unless Youre This Guy Clickgtgt And He told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray amp not lose heart. Luke Everyone will know that you are my disciples because of your love for each other. John Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter When you pray dont give God instructions... Just report for duty RT amotherjoy Caption this photo. Every setback is a setup for a comeback. God wants to bring you out better than you were before. Love each other as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life he who believes in Me will live even if he dies John If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us our sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John If you want to know where youll be in yrs listen to what you talk about most now. Your tongue is a rudder James I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye A Yr Olds Dad Couldnt Breathe And Her Call Had Our Jaws Dropping Clickgtgt Patience is not the ability to wait but how you act while youre waiting. In the same way faith by itself if it is not accompanied by action is dead. James Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Rom Honor your father and mother so you may prosper and be a long time on the earth Ephesians Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew RT llovebeingmom Nothing make a daughter understand their mother more until they become mothers too. You are where God wants you to be at this very moment. Every experience is part of His divine plan. RT BookOProverbs A heart at peace gives life to the body but envy rots the bones. Proverbs What we are is Gods gift to us. What we become is our gift to God. Eleanor Powell RT LifeLimits Yes I am Commit to the LORD whatever you do and your plans will succeed. Proverbs . I sought the LORD and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Psalm Jesus said that before the Second Coming If anyone tells you Look here is Christ... dont believe it Mark This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . RT FaithReeI Mother Duck Leaves Ducklings Behind On The Dock What They Do Will Have You Smiling. Clickgtgt https God never promises the absence of storms. He just promises to walk with us through them. If you love me obey my commandments.John RT TheGospels Looking for some INSPIRATION Visit gt and sign up for our daily emails. Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John RT FwJesus God didnt create any of us to be average. He didnt make us to barely get by. We were created to excel. LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD with all your heart with all your soul with all your strength God knows us better than anyone else and thats why no one can love us like He does. RT FaithReeI This Friars Voice As He Sings Amazing Grace Gave Us Chills Hes That Good Clickgtgt You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart all your soul amp all your mind. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Matt . God never tells us to do anything without giving us the ability to do it. see Philippians I dont care if you are following me follow Him. Peace comes when you pray. RT QuoteSoup One day. You can purchase this shirt here gt We know that Jesus really is the Savior of the world. John Doing what is right amp fair pleases the Lord more than an offering. Proverbs In his name the nations will put their hope. Matthew But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm RT TabithaKhaye Doctors Prep For Surgery On A Baby Then An MRI Shows Them God Has Other Plans Clickgtgt Nobody is in charge of your happiness except you. I came that you may have and enjoy life and have it in abundance until it overflows. John I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark Scared Pray.Over thinking Pray.Losing hope Pray.Worried Pray.Struggling Pray.Pray and Trust in God. Please Retweet. As a dog goes back to its vomit so a fool repeats his stupidity. Proverbs Freely you have received freely give. Matthew One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts Dont fear for Im w u dont be dismayed for Im ur God. Ill strengthen u amp help u Ill uphold u w my righteous right hand Isa Come unto me ye who are weary and overburdened and I will give you rest. Matthew RT QuoteSoup Netflix has a special place in all our hearts gt The entire law is summed up in a single command Love your neighbor as yourself. Galatians RT GODsGraces God sees in you what you cant see in yourself. You are a child of God. YOU ARE AMAZING Teach them to do everything I have commanded you. And remember that I am always with you until the end of time. Matthew For the grace of God has appeared bringing salvation to all men Titus Submit yourselves then to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Like a flood His mercy rains. RT FaithReeI When This Boy amp Grandpa Play A Game What Happens Next Will Have You Laughing Out Loud By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . In all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your paths straight. Proverbs RT TheGospels Is todays MESSAGE for YOU Visit gt to signup for our daily inspirational emails. God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power amp of love amp of sound mind. Tim Humble yourselves therefore under Gods mighty hand that he may lift you up in due time. Peter But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Gal RT JarridWilson The moment one thinks heshe has things under control is the moment where all is now at risk of complete failure. Dont e RT FaithReeI Cute Little Boy Surprises Dad By Catching A Fish With His Toy Rod Praise to our God who grants us peace amp rest in Jesus Christ. I spread out my hands to you my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Psalm Take delight in the LORD and he will give you the desires of your heart. Psalms A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. Proverbs Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm RT amotherjoy So innocent And my God will supply all your needs according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians Little trials without God will break you. Big trials with God will make you. May you always find strength in Gods love and faithfulness. Love and value yourself. You are Gods creation and He paid a dear price for you to be alive today. You dont need to know what tomorrow holds. All you need to know is the One who holds tomorrow. When you focus on Gods promises instead of the problems youll notice your thoughts will be healthier and filled with peace. Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Phil Jesus answered It is written Man shall not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Matthew Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Proverbs Those who know your name trust you because you Lord dont abandon those who see you Psalm The eyes of the LORD are on those who fear him on those whose hope is in his unfailing love. Psalm Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Matthew RT amotherjoy Love this God is the ONLY one that can change someone. Leave it in his hands. RT JarridWilson Going through a tough time Need someone to talk to Our anthemofhope LiveChat is here for you. Trials without God will break you. Trials with God will make you. RT JesusGraces You who hear prayer to you all men will come. Psalm The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil RT lnspiredLife Yes They Sure DO gt Satan is the curtain that attempts to separate us from God. Yank it down Praise God Set your minds on things above not on earthly things. Colossians RT FaithReeI She Rescued A Baby From The Trash amp Is Raising It Now People Are Shunning Her Clickgtgt RT JarridWilson Jesus will never tell you that your baggage is too messy to be forgiven. Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians A man of knowledge uses words with restraint and a man of understanding is eventempered. Proverbs RT TheGospels What are you THANKFUL for Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm RT TabithaKhaye Mother Chooses Life for Her Baby and Gives Up Her Own. Clickgtgt And now these three remain faith hope and love. But the greatest of these is love Corinthians Love is patientLove is kind Love is not jealousLove does not bragLove is not arrogant RT FaithReeI A Cop Pulled Him Over For No Reason Then He Gets The Surprise Of His Life Clickgtgt Heregtgt Every house is built by someone but God is the builder of everything. Hebrews Let us fix our eyes on Jesus the author amp perfecter of our faith who for the joy set before him endured the cross. Heb Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else. Thessalonians Jesus said to them I am the bread of life he who comes to Me will not hunger and he who believes in Me will never thirst. John RT amotherjoy Hi there Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see. Hebrews Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Philippians Today forgive those that have hurt you amp forgive yourself so that you can walk in victory. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. James Jesus said to her I am the resurrection amp the life. Anyone who believes in me will live even though they die John Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . My dear brothers amp sisters take note of this Everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak amp slow to become angry. James For whatever a man sows that shall he also reap. Galatians Make a tree good and its fruit will be good. Matthew Do everything in love. Corinthians Judge your worth and value by what God says about you in His Word not by how somebody else treats you. Ephesians God give us a helper against the oppressor for human help is worthless Psalm RT FaithReeI Cute Little Boy Surprises Dad By Catching A Fish With His Toy Rod Clickgtgt For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph In his name the nations will put their hope Matthew RT TheGospels Have FAITH in HIM. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. For I will restore health to you amp your wounds I will heal. Jeremiah . RT ArmorOGod You may have weaknesses but God has strength. You may have sin but God has grace. You may fail but God remains faithful So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark When you hear that still small voice inside of you Thats God saying Be reasonable do it my way Worry increases pressure prayer releases peace. RT FaithReeI Dog Collapses After Emotional Reunion This Tugged At Our Heart Strings Clickgtgt A quicktempered man does foolish things and a crafty man is hated. Proverbs God always has a relief for every sorrow and a plan for every tomorrow. Jesus replied What is impossible with men is possible with God. Luke So then just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord continue to live your lives in him. Colossians RT LifeLimits Dream Big. Dream OFTEN. gt We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John If you had faith even as small as a mustard seed you could say to this mountain Move from here to there amp it would move. Matthew And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deut If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for Matthew Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matt A thousand times Ive failed still Your mercy remains. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you Peter So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark RT LovLikeJesus Please Pray with us God please forgive us for offending you hear our prayers we pray for world peace the sick hungryampp There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John But God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Romans Blessed are those who mourn for they will be comforted. Matthew Life is Gods novel. Let him write it. Isaac Bashevis Singer RT llovmycat Warning Cuteness Overload For it is by grace you have been saved through faithand this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph RT anthemofhope Without tragedy we wouldnt know what hope is. RT TheGospels We dont begin to know what freedom is until we come to a place in our lives where we have no need to impress anybody. I believe in the sun even if it isnt shining. I believe in love even when I am alone. I believe in God even when He is silent. But I say to you who hear love your enemies do good to those who hate you Luke RT ScriptureTruth Dont pass up this KIND deal bracelets for .. Hurry while they last When you have doubts and questions choose to say Lord I believe. I may not always understand but I trust you. I am with you always. Matthew . Dont pass up this KIND deal bracelets for .. Hurry while they last RT TheDaiIyPuppy You had me at WOOF. gt God understands our prayers even when we cant find the words to say them. RT FaithReeI Family Rescues A Baby Duck Now Its Doing The Most Adorable Funny Things Clickgtgt Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. All Scripture is Godbreathed amp is useful for teaching rebuking correcting and training in righteousness. Tim RT TheGospels Begin amp end today with PRAYER. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. You will turn back to me amp ask for help and I will answer your prayers. Jeremiah This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering amp sacrifice to God. Eph A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Proverbs RT FaithReeI Ecstatic Little Girl Gets Her New Leg. Her Friends Reactions Are The Best Clickgtgt You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm The righteousness of the upright delivers them but the unfaithful are trapped by evil desires Proverbs My soul is satisfied as with a rich feast. Psalms . RT SportsHQ That about sums it up Never a Bad Day Fishing gt Let us not become weary in doing good for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Galatians So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John RT amotherjoy Hi there Jesus gives you inner peace. That peace is radiated out. O LORD my God I called to you for help amp you healed me. Psalm Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matthew Dont brag about yourself let others praise you. Proverbs Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil For the LORD loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. Psalm Some people talk about finding God as if He could get lost. The kingdom of God is within you. Luke Always be in prayer for loved ones who have not accepted Christ as their savior Repent then amp turn to God so that your sins may be wiped out that times of refreshing may come from the Lord. Acts Give God your problems and allow Him to give you solutions. RT motherknow No one knows like a mother Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil So I say walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. Galatians RT AthIetesForGod God will help you overcome wrong motives and intentions if youll simply ask and receive help rather than trying to do Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Mat It is to a mans honor to avoid strife but every fool is quick to quarrel. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye After Sneaking Away From Their Hospital Beds You Got To See The Sweet Mischief They Get In To.CLICKgtgt Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isa RT QuoteSoup Are you hearing these voices yet gt Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew RT FaithReeI Baby Abandoned In Frigid Cold For Hours Is Saved By A Homeless Stray Cat Clickgtgt I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians The world and its desires pass away but the man who does the will of God lives forever. John Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Mat RT TheGospels Lets begin today with a PRAYER. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. And He said...your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT GodlyLife Dont fear for Im w u dont be dismayed for Im ur God. Ill strengthen u amp help u Ill uphold u w my righteous righ Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. RT anthemofhope Your life matters. God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Romans RT FaithReeI A Program That Flies Cancer Patients FREE Of Charge To Their Place Of Treatment Clickgtgt Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Cor You sin God forgives.You worry Gods in control.Youre empty God restores.Youre alone God is with you. Everytime you forgive you disappoint the devil. RT FamousWomen Yes They Sure DO gt As one whom his mother comforts so will I will comfort you. Isa Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Prov The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs So when you a mere human pass judgment on them amp yet do the same things do you think you will escape Gods judgment Romans Jesus Christ endured more than we can ever imagine just for the chance at a relationship with us. ForeverThankful A quicktempered man does foolish things Prov Start children off on the way they should go and even when they are old they will not turn from it. Proverbs For if you forgive others when they sin against you your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Matthew The Lord is a shield for all who take refuge in him Psalm He who covers his sins will not prosper but whoever confesses amp forsakes them will have mercy. Proverbs Jesus never said it would be easy but He said it would be worth it Matt Cast your burden upon the LORD and He will sustain you He will never allow the righteous to be shaken. Psalm A righteous man cares for the needs of his animal but the kindest acts of the wicked are cruel. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye I totally agree. The fear of the LORD teaches a man wisdom and humility comes before honor. Proverbs RT LovLikeJesus Im a Christian. Im not perfect. Just because I mess up sometimes doesnt mean Im fake. Theres no such thing as a perf Be strong and of good courage do not fear... for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. Deuteronomy . RT JesusGraces AMEN Jesus didnt die so we could have religion. He died so we could have a deep intimate personal relationship with God. Save me from people of the world Psalm Exercise daily. Walk with the Lord Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. Matthew RT FaithReeI The Miracle Stairs Of Loretto Are Shrouded In The Most Amazing Unsolved Mysteries Even Today Clickgtgt gtgtgt The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . You need to be moving if you want God to show you which way to go. RT TheGospels Have you joined our community yet Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa RT PrayInFaith We exist to make a big deal out of God. Its not about you. Its not about me. Its all about him. He who covers over an offense promotes love but whoever repeats the matter separates close friends. Proverbs Be a blessing to someone today. Proverbs RT FaithReeI When This Boy Explains Why His Dad Has Super Powers Youll Agree too Clickgtgtgt Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph RT LifeLimits Who says Movie Quotes cant make you BiLingual gt Honesty can keep you safe but if you cant be trusted you trap yourself. Proverbs Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Matthew Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew RT motherknow So sweet When you start focusing on a loving God whos given everything amp stop focusing on what seems to be going wrong you will see breakthrough. There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John Get Gods plan before making your own plans. For everyone who asks receives those who seek find and to those who knock the door will be opened. Matthew RT TabithaKhaye Doctor Says This Baby Is A Real Miracle Mom Says He Was Touched By The Hand Of Grace. Clickgtgt htt My whole being is happy Psalm Honor your father and your mother so that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you. Exodus I asked God for strength and God gave me difficulties to make me strong. Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters. Hebrews Never let anyone tell you that you cant do something because the Bible says you can do all things through him which strengthens you. We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Rom Therefore if anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has gone the new has come Corinthians RT GodlyLife I need this bracelet Look at the color contrasts. New Arrival selling out fast gt Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . RT FwJesus If ye love me keep my commandments. John If people cant see what God is doing they stumble over themselves when they attend to what he reveals they are most blessed Proverbs Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Corinthians RT QuoteSoup Summer is here and its about time Get this shirt here gt Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Matthew This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . RT LovLikeJesus Please join our prayer Holy God please bring peace to us all bless amp help the suffering sick hungry amp poor. We pray Cast but a glance at riches amp they are gone for they will surely sprout wings amp fly off to the sky like an eagle. Proverbs RT FaithReeI Disfigured amp Abandoned At Birth His Future Was Bleak But God Had Other Plans For Him Clickgtgtgt h Serve the Lord with fear amp rejoice with trembling. Psalm This is the day which the LORD has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm RT TheGospels God is the ANSWER to all our PROBLEMS. Visit gt For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Rom God is able to provide you with every blessing in abundance. Corinthians . If we confess our sins he is faithful and righteous so he may forgive us for our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness John Nothing completely covered will remain covered and nothing hidden will remain unknown. Luke RT FaithReeI Truck Driver Shows Tailgating Woman Something That Makes Her Think Twice Before Passing Clickgtgt htt I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. Phil RT happpydog You had me at WOOF. gt But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Prov The proverbs of Solomon A wise son brings joy to his father but a foolish son grief to his mother. Proverbs So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark I am with you always. Matthew . Jesus answered I am the way and the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John God gives different people different talents. Wherever He has you He has you there for a purpose. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm J E S U S I S M Y S A V I O U R Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Psalm I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians We brought nothing into the world nor can we take anything out of it Timothy When fear knocks on the door answer with faith The LORD is compassionate amp gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm RT motherknow Happens to us all So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John RT anthemofhope Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest.Matthew RT TheGospels Submit therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John RT InspireUs I really DO Babe To the FRIDGE and back Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter Hear my prayer God. Dont hide from my request. Pay attention to me and respond to me Psalm Godgiven struggles dont come to stay they come to pass. Just be patient. Wait while God works for you. I am with you always. Matthew . RT FaithReeI Twin Babies Team Up And Attack Dad In The Cutest Way Clickgtgt Have the courage to make the change the strength to see you through it and faith that everything will turn out for the best. I know that my redeemer lives and that in the end he will stand on the earth. Job RT TheGospels Have you signed up for todays message Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. O LORD my God I called to you for help and you healed me. Psalm And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke A mans pride shall bring him low but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. Proverbs Before they call I will answer while they are yet speaking I will hear. Isaiah . RT FaithReeI Youll Be Shocked At Whats Done With The Soap From Hotels After You Leave Clickgtgt Jesus said Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest Matthew The wicked man earns deceptive wages but he who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward. Proverbs He who kneels before God can stand before anyone I also say to you that you are Peter and upon this rock I will build My church and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. Matt RT TheDaiIyPuppy Love can be found in many unthough places. gt As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Do not let your heart be troubled believe in God believe also in Me. John If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew Pray amp let God worry Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Psalm Im a failure. Hes my forgiverIm a sinner. Hes my savior.Im broken. Hes my healer.Im His child. Hes my God. With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm RT FaithReeI What Our World Desperately Needs Today Is Whats In This Video Clickgtgt This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth no sacrifice for sins is left. Heb Words are like seeds. They have creative power. Isaiah says We will eat the fruit of our words. What seeds are you planting The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are Gods children. Romans RT llovmydog Taking the family for a walk. Cuteness Overload. Smile things are working out. You may not see it now but just know God is directing you. Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt RT FamousWomen RT if you ARE a CAMPING girl gt The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Galatians RT JesusGraces Check out this new bracelet You know you need this black cross in your life Order my steps in thy word amp let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Psalm God has a perfect timing for everything. Learn to wait on Him. This brings Him honor and it brings you peace. see Psalm RT FaithReeI Grandma Teaching Adorable Wk Old Baby Sign Language Will Make You Smile Clickgtgt Your actions speak so loud I cant hear your words Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isaiah I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Galatians RT JarridWilson Jesus loves you too much to leave you the way he found you. His love and grace will change you for the better. RT TheGospels Every Morning is a fresh start. gt Visit and sign up for our daily emails. Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you whom you have from God... Cor RT ArmorOGod Make up your mind that youre not going to quit until you see the fruit of what God has placed within you. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Chronicles LET JESUS TAKE THE WHEEL. I am a divine creation one of Gods masterpieces. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil amp he will flee from you James RT QuoteSoup Dream Big. Dream OFTEN. gt Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matt For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil cling to what is good. Romans Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew Be a blessing to someone today Prov And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love amp of sound mind. Timothy Teach me the way of life. Fill me with the joy of your presence Psalm I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess RT TabithaKhaye The Reality About Having A Baby This Couple Will Have You Laughing. Clickgtgt Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Revelation Taste and see that the LORD is good blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Psalm He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Gods plan for your life gt Your plan for your life. What you do in front of people is nothing if you are not living the same life at home behind closed doors. Matthew For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts RT AmazingiGrace From the Bottom to the Top YOU are PERFECT gt God has a wonderful way of turning negatives into positives. Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Cor Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . If the world hates you keep in mind that it hated me first. John I urge you brothers in view of Gods mercy to offer your bodies as living sacrifices holy and pleasing to God. Romans Life is not fair but God is always faithful. RT AmazedByAnimals You had me at WOOF. gt Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of His might. Ephesians Keep falsehood amp lies far from me give me neither poverty nor riches but give me only my daily bread. Proverbs But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Galatians RT FaithReeI Puppy Born Without Legs Runs For st Time With His New Scooter Clickgtgt O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Is Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Timothy Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians The LORD God said It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Genesis Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter God may not get us out of a situation but He will give us the strength to get through it. It is done unto you as you believe. Matthew The grass withers and the flowers fall but the word of our God stands forever. Isaiah Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matthew Light a fire on the inside. You have the seed of Almighty God. Dont allow something small to keep you from Gods best. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the sons of God. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John I am the LORD that is my name I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. Isaiah RT TabithaKhaye Popular School Girls Bully Janitor Until He Does Something That Makes Their Jaws Drop Clickgtgt The Lord my God lights my darkness Psalm I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Prov Wrong doers eagerly listen to gossip liars pay close attention to slander. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye Do what you love the money will follow. Finally all of you live in harmony with one another be sympathetic love as brothers be compassionate and humble. Peter RT GODsGraces One of my favorite verses. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews RT LovLikeJesus New bracelet has been released Checkout the brilliance of the Seven Days Pearl gt A good name is more desirable than great wealth. Respect is better than silver or gold. Proverbs RT QuoteSoup That about sums it up Never a Bad Day Fishing gt I called Lord and I was saved from those who hate me Psalm Pleasant words are as a honeycomb sweet to the mind amp healing to the body. Proverbs You shall call and the Lord will answer. Isaiah . RT FaithReeI Million Are Enslaved In Human Trafficking Its Big Business Of The Most Barbaric Kind Clickgtgt h Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Corinthians Everything can be done for a believer. Mark RT TheGospels Have FAITH. Visit gt to signup for our daily emails. No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor RT ScriptureTruth Gods Laws are more desirable than gold yes more than much refined gold Psalm Gods Laws are more desirable than gold yes more than much refined gold Psalm Do not brag about tomorrow because you do not know what another day may bring. Proverbs Wherever you are going God has already been there and paved the way for you. Matt RT FaithReeI Small Kitchen Storage Hacks Will Have You So Organized Youll Love Your Kitchen Clickgtgt Do not judge so that you will not be judged. Matthew But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness amp all these things will be given to you as well. Matt In his heart a man plans his course but the LORD determines his steps. Proverbs If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew RT SportsHQ We all have our PROBLEMS gt The LORD is compassionate and gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm My salvation and my honor depend on God he is my mighty rock my refuge. Psalm You are the light of the world. Matthew . Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world but that the world might be saved through Him. John RT TabithaKhaye Gone Viral Reba McEntires New Song Back To God Is So Good It Gave Us Chills. Clickgtgt Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest. Matthew We dont begin to know what freedom is until we come to a place in our lives where we have no need to impress anybody. God will help you overcome wrong motives and intentions if youll simply ask and receive help rather than trying to do it on your own. But I say to you love your enemies amp pray for those who persecute you. Matthew So if you think you are standing firm be careful that you dont fall Corinthians Good people bring out good things from the good stored in them. Matthew RT llovmydog Curious eyes. I seek you with all my heart do not let me stray from your commands. Psalm RT LovLikeJesus Jesus Christ endured more than we can ever imagine just for the chance at a relationship with us. ForeverThankful Jesus replied Very truly I tell you no one can see the kingdom of God without being born again. John RT happpydog One day. You can purchase this shirt here gt Create in me a clean heart O God and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Psalm RT JarridWilson Your faith doesnt have to be perfect to be real faith. Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Jame Delight yourself in the LORD and hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Mat . RT FaithReeI This Toddler Is The Boss And Her Message For Dad Will Make Your Day Clickgtgt If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Romans Teach me amp I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job RT TheGospels Todays message was FOR YOU Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph RT GodLoved JESUS gt ME God sees your pain. He will supply an opportunity. He will provide a way. Bigger and greater than before Seek ye first his kingdom and righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Matthew Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Heb RT FaithReeI There are times when God wants to use you in someone elses life it may not be pretty or comfortable but they need to see Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh G O D I S G O O D Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world the love of the Father is not in him. John Say to wisdom You are my sister amp call understanding your intimate friend Proverbs Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. James RT AmazedByAnimals Coffee amp Dog. gt God gt My fearsGod gt My insecuritiesGod gt My worryGod gt My everything For everything there is a season a time for every activity under heaven. Ecclesiastes Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ amp the love of God amp the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Cor And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matt God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love and of sound mind. Tim God loves you because of who God is not because of anything you did or didnt do. Regina Brett Greater love has no one than this that one lay down his life for his friends. John As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil RT llovmydog Awwww. He sleeps safe and sound. Some people are hurting so bad you have to do more than preach a message to them. You have to BE a message to them. For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John RT JarridWilson Faith means trusting God even when all seems lost. Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matthew When God is all you have then all you have is all you need. And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT JesusGraces just released the Rose Gold Cross bracelet Limited quantities gt Teach me and I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job RT FaithReeI Mother Duck Leaves Ducklings Behind On The Dock What They Do Will Have You Smiling. Clickgtgt https God gt The World If you want to give the devil a nervous breakdown get up every day and be as happy as you can possibly be With men it is impossible but to God all things are possible. Matthew RT TheGospels Have Faith God has a plan for you. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Lord Youre more than enough for me. RT PrayInFaith Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm Love your neighbor as yourself. Mat RT FaithReeI Doctors Said Baby Had A Chance Of Survival But God Had Other Plans Clickgtgt Dont let this Book of the Law depart from your mouth meditate on it day and night. Joshua My connection to God allows me to create all the good in my live. The Lord lives Psalm Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs Dont be afraid be inspired. God gave us talents and He wants us to use them. RT llovebeingmom Do you agree RT LifeLimits Pet HAIR EVERYWHERE. gt Let your light shine forth before men that they may see your good works amp give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor The light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it. John When you are tempted he will provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Corinthians Every word of God is flawless he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Proverbs For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John If you love me keep my commands. John Do not let kindness amp truth leave you Bind them around your neck Write them on the tablet of your heart. Prov Mercy peace and love be yours in abundance. Jude RT FaithReeI Tim Tebow Couldnt Accept Fans Prom Invite Instead He Surprises Her In The Best Way Clickgtgt https May the God of hope fill you with all joy amp peace in believing. Romans . Its time to rise above those negative circumstances and believe what God says about you. You are blessed favored loved For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph RT EpicWomen Yes They Sure DO gt So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do do it all for the glory of God. Corinthians Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matt Jesus looked at them and said With man this is impossible but with God all things are possible. Matthew Nothing will be impossible to you. Mat RT FaithReeI Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Prov Is anyone among you in trouble Let them pray. Is anyone happy Let them sing songs of praise. James Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John Take up the whole armor of God so you may be able to stand in the evil day Ephesians RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt A man of knowledge uses words with restraint amp a man of understanding is eventempered. Prov If anyone is in Christ there is a new creation. Corinthians In all your ways acknowledge him amp he will make your paths straight. Prov RT FaithReeI Puppy Awakens Upset After Surgery amp How The Vet Assistant Helps It Is Heart Melting Clickgtgt https If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God God lives in him and he in God. John Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John Jesus Christ paid the ultimate price of dying for our sins so that we might gain the ultimate prize of a relationship with Him. Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh RT LifeLimits Yes I am The Lord is an avenger Thessalonians For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John Selfishness is weakness. But loving and caring for others is a position of power beyond anything we can possibly imagine. Godloyal people living honest lives make it much easier for their children. Proverbs Too often we spend all of our time seeking God for answers to our problems when what we should be doing is just seeking God. Dont worry it never helps anything. Pray Trust God Let it go LORD MAKE ME AN INSTRUMENT OF YOUR PEACE Where theres hate let me sow love Where theres injury pardon Where theres despair hope Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John Then Jesus said Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God John By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John How much better it is to get skillful amp Godly Wisdom than gold amp to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver. Proverbs If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians RT llovmycat Shopping with mom. Let your light shine forth before men that they may see your good works amp give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew God is our refuge and strength a very present help in trouble. Psalms Surely God is my salvation I will trust amp not be afraid. Isa RT InspireUs MATH .. Ive got problems well I think its . gt RT JarridWilson Because pretending to be a Christian isnt really Christianity at all. Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . God loves us. We must not be afraid to love him. Pope Francis Some of Gods greatest gifts are unanswered prayers. Garth Brooks RT FaithReeI Worlds Best Street Drummer. Youve Got To See It To Believe It. Clickgtgt Want to find happiness in your life Appreciate the small stuff. You are blessed more than you realize. And He said... your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT TheGospels Prayer is YOUR wireless connection to God. Visit gt Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew RT daiIyscripture Make up your mind that youre not going to quit until you see the fruit of what God has placed within you. God has a more awesome plan for your life than you could ever imagine simply because He loves you GOD IS THE REASON WHY In pain I smile In confusion I understand. In betrayal I trust. In fear I push forward. God is the best part of my life. Without Him I cant imagine where Id be. Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matthew For everyone who asks receives and he who seeks finds and to him who knocks it will be opened. Matthew God has never stopped being good weve just stop being grateful. People should always pray and not give up Luke You can decide to trust God or you can decide to be miserable. Decide today that you wont give up on your dreams and desires. Keep pressing forward believing that you are anointed and empowered. Jesus died for you knowing you might never love Him back. THAT is true love. I love you O LORD my strength. Psalm Despite their desires the lazy will come to ruin for their hands refuse to work. Proverbs You have been saved as a favor through faith. This doesnt come from yourselves. Its Gods gift Ephesians GOD LOVES YOU He will be there for you. He will make a way for you. He will wipe away your tears. He will be your best friend. You will turn back to me amp ask for help amp I will answer your prayers Jer RT TabithaKhaye Great Dane Helps Little Girl With Disabilities In A Way Nobody Else Could Clickgtgt The path of lazy people is overgrown with briers the diligent walk down a smooth road. Proverbs God will never lead you wrong. Salvation is found in no one else for there is no other name given under heaven by which we must be saved. Acts RT llovmydog Enjoying the beach. God wants your st relationship to be with Him. Then one another then outreach to the world. Eph Trust the LORD amp his mighty power. Psalm RT AmazedByAnimals You had me at WOOF. gt Pride goes before destruction a haughty spirit before a fall. Proverbs Hold your head up high and know God is in control he has a perfect plan for your life. Keep your mind going in the right direction and your life will catch up with it. My command is this Love each other as I have loved you. John RT FaithReeI Jesus didnt die so we could have religion. He died so we could have a deep intimate personal relationship with God. In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry amp do not give the devil a foothold. Eph Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it. Proverbs RT TheGospels When all else fails GOD is HERE for YOU. gt Visit amp signup for our daily emails. God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Rom RT BookOProverbs I sought the LORD and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Psalm Pride only breeds quarrels but wisdom is found in those who take advice. Proverbs The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . Never let loyalty and kindness leave you Tie them around your neck as a reminder. Write them deep within your heart. Proverbs RT FaithReeI Cute Little Boy Surprises Dad By Catching A Fish With His Toy Rod. Clickgtgt For the Spirit God gave us does not make us timid but gives us power love and selfdiscipline. Timothy Praise the LORD O my soul all my inmost being praise his holy name. Psalm Praise God even when you dont understand what Hes doing. If you cant control what you think you will not be able to control what you do. RT JesusGraces Amen gt Jesus Gives Hope. Frustration complication and misery are available in abundance but so is Gods grace. Walk boldly through the doors God opens for you and dont become discouraged when He closes one. When you take time with God and listen to His voice He renews your strength and enables you to handle life. For God alone my soul waits in silence. Psalm RT TabithaKhaye He Plays Hallelujah On Crystal Glasses Of Water And It Sounds Heavenly Clickgtgt And nothing will be impossible for you. Matthew . For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts God u all u need One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts I am a Christian. That does not mean I am perfect. Just forgiven. God has a bright future in store for you Keep standing Keep believing Keep hoping Be on your guard stand firm in the faith be men of courage be strong. Corinthians RT anthemofhope Breathe. Its going to be okay. God is with you. Create in me a clean heart O God. Psalm . RT GodlyLife And the crooked shall be made straight amp the rough ways shall be made smooth. Luke . Love is not a feeling we have its a decision to treat people the way Jesus would treat them. In God we will be strong Psalm RT JesusGraces A SOUL full of HOPE .. gt I pray to you my protector. Psalm A friend loves at all times amp a brother is born for adversity. Prov You will be secure because there is hope you will look about you amp take your rest in safety. Job RT BookOProverbs In need of some new bling Checkout this bracelet theyre selling fast gt RT FaithReeI Raccoon Knocks On Window With A Rock For Hours Til She Gets What She Came For Clickgtgt Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Humility and the fear of the LORD bring wealth and honor and life. Proverbs RT TheGospels Have FAITH in HIM. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil Every word of God is pure He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Proverbs RT JesusGraces God never tells us to do anything without giving us the ability to do it. seePhilippians And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT lnspireme From the Bottom to the Top YOU are PERFECT gt For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Romans RT FaithReeI Puppy Was Hopelessly Encased In Tar Then Something Awesome happened Clickgtgt Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John God is spirit and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth. John The God who made the world amp everything in it is the Lord of heaven amp earth amp does not live in temples built by hands. Acts Disappointments were not meant to destroy you. They were meant to strengthen you amp give you fortitude to accomplish your Godgiven destiny. Never underestimate the power of a prayer. One small prayer can change your life dramatically. RT llovmydog Dalmatians are so cute Dont worry if youre single. God is looking at you right now saying Im saving this one for someone special What God intended for you goes far beyond anything you can imagine. Never lose hope and hang on to Gods hand. Always keep your head up because if its down you wont be able to see the blessings that have been placed in your life. I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark Many books can INFORM you but the Bible can TRANSFORM you. RT TabithaKhaye A Father With Alzheimers Teaches His Adult Son A Lesson I Am In Tears Clickgtgt If you do good to those who are good to you what credit is that to you Even sinners do that. Luke It is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . Happiness is not based on your circumstances but on a decision you make. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke days without prayer makes one weak Trust the LORD amp his mighty power. Psalm RT DavidRoads Worry often gives a small thing a great shadow. Swedish Proverb Trust in Him Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Hebrews Let go of the disappointments and setbacks in your life and hang on to the promises of God for your future. RT QuoteSoup Dream Big. Dream OFTEN. gt Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Tim RT daiIyscripture The Rose Gold Cross has been a huge hit so far Dont miss out gt It is you who made the heavens and the earth by your great power. Nothing is too hard for you. Jeremiah RT EpicWomen Yes They Sure DO gt Each person you meet is Jesus in disguise. Mother Teresa RT FaithReeI Homeowner Wasnt Expecting To Find A Baby Bear Doing This With His New Hammock Clickgtgt Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter The Lord is at my right hand so that I wont be shaken Acts I tell you not to worry about your life. Matthew RT TheGospels Have FAITH God has a message for YOU. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm RT GODsGraces God has you in the palm of His hand. He knows every need every struggle amp every desire. He has it all figured outHes a Delight yourself in the LORD amp hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm In your relationships with one another have the same attitude of mind Christ Jesus had Philippians RT FaithReeI Disfiguredamp Abandoned At Birth His Future Was Bleak But God Had Other Plans For Him Clickgtgt ht God remains in us and his love in us is made complete. John I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. Romans Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat When I think of all the stuff Ive been through I have confidence I can get through this. I trust that God will take care of me. With God all things are possible. Matthew Jesus answered I am the way amp the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John Respect those who caution you Thessalonians I fall asleep in peace the moment I lie down because you alone O LORD enable me to live securely. Psalm . Before his downfall a mans heart is proud but humility comes before honor. Proverbs He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa RT TabithaKhaye As His Wife Goes Blind And Wont Accept Help This Husband Does The Most Sneaky Sweet Things Clickgtgt Never lose faith. God loves you too much to let you down. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter . Unless you change and become like little children you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Matthew Great peace have those who love your law nothing can make them stumble. Psalm . God Is There Even When Youre At Your Lowest. Hes Working Things Out Even When You Dont Know It. The Lord will be a refuge for the oppressed a refuge for times of trouble Psalm The Lords word is pure Psalm . RT motherknow Great advice A positive attitude gives you power over your circumstances instead of your circumstances having power over you. RT TheGospels For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm. Make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be holy without holiness no one will see the Lord. Hebrews Wishing will NEVER be a substitute for prayer. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ the Father of compassion amp the God of all comfort. Cor RT WomenSports If Found Please Return to the Finish Line gt If we say that we have no sin we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. John RT FaithReeI Toddler Tells His Dog To Play With The Sprinkler The Dogs Reaction Is The Best Clickgtgt gt https Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. RT TheGospels What are you THANKFUL for Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew RT BibleTime Selfishness is weakness. But loving and caring for others is a position of power beyond anything we can possibly imagine. Happy moments Praise GodDifficult moments Seek GodQuiet moments Worship GodDifficult moments Trust GodEvery moment Thank God Satan seeks to defeat you by tempting you to trust your own wisdom to live according to ur selfcentered feelings and to gratify your flesh RT FaithReeI The Miracle Stairs Of Loretto Are Shrouded In The Most Amazing Unsolved Mysteries Even Today Clickgtgt Jesus said to him I am the way and the truth and the life no one comes to the Father but through Me. John Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind amp with all your strength. Mark God not only sees where you are He sees where you can be. Trusting God is more than what you can see. Walk by FAITH not by sight. Without love we dont feel anything.Without dreams we dont accomplish anything.Without God we arent anything. As churning the milk produces butter and as twisting the nose produces blood so stirring up anger produces strife. Proverbs God is our refuge and strength a very present help in trouble. Psalms Satan seeks to defeat you by tempting you to trust your own wisdom. TRUST IN GOD. You are a child of God. Youre playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking. I put on the Full Armor of God Ephesians Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. This is the first amp greatest commandment. Matt Be on your guard stand firm in the faith be men of courage be strong. Cor What is desired in a man is kindness amp a poor man is better than a liar. Proverbs If ye love me keep my commandments. John The tongue has the power of life and death and those who love it will eat its fruit. Proverbs The thief comes only to steal amp kill amp destroy I have come that they may have life amp have it to the full. John You may have weaknesses but God has strength. You may have sin but God has grace. You may fail but God remains faithful RT motherknow The birth of a mother is a powerful thing. I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess RT SaintlyLife GOD is good. ALL the time. RT anthemofhope Hurting Depressed Need someone to talk to Our LiveChat is here for you. Its free and confidential. Draw near to God and He will draw near to you James For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this is not from yourselves it is the gift of God Ephesians RT JesusGraces Show how God is there for you thru your highs and lows with this tshirt from Elevated Faith gt ht Love is patient love is kind and is not jealous love does not brag and is not arrogant Corinthians Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer amp petition w thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil RT WomenSports Spring is here and its about time Get this shirt here gt For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer RT JarridWilson My man justinbieber is over here preaching at OneLoveManchester RT FaithReeI Mother Chooses Life for Her Baby and Gives Up Her Own. Clickgtgt Selfrestraint amp gentle speech are effective against stubborn opposition. Dont procrastinate theres no time to lose. Proverbs RT TheGospels Christ have Mercy. Visit gt to secure your subscription When you are tempted he will provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Cor RT TheGospels The Lord is an avenger Thessalonians He who believes in the Son has eternal life but he who does not obey the Son will not see life but the wrath of God abides on him. Jn You ask in prayer but dont receive it because you ask wrongly wanting to squander it on pleasure James It was for freedom that Christ set us free therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. Galatians RT FaithReeI The Design Of This s Style Village Facility Is Helping Alzheimers Patients Remember. Clickgtgt Gods will is not an itinerary but an attitude. Andrew Dhuse If you can believe all things are possible to him who believeth. Mark RT QuoteSoup RT if you have similar day. gt get it here Some say God loves us if we change. The Gospel says Gods love CHANGES us. I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. RT llovmydog Amazing blue eyes Those who mock the poor insult their Maker those who rejoice at the misfortune of others will be punished. Proverbs He who conceals his hatred has lying lips and whoever spreads slander is a fool. Proverbs Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . A man can no more diminish Gods glory by refusing worship him than a lunatic can put out the sun by scribbling the word darkness I cant believe that God put us on this earth to be ordinary. Lou Holtz RT TabithaKhaye Doctor Says This Baby Is A Real Miracle Mom Says He Was Touched By The Hand Of Grace. clickgtgt ht He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs Pray that we may be given a hunger amp burning desire to fellowship more closely with Jesus I love you O LORD my strength. Psalm Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Romans If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us ur sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John RT llovmycat Kitty banana And the crooked shall be made straight amp the rough ways shall be made smooth. Luke . If you love Me you will keep My commandments. John A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Prov We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him who have been called according to his purpose. Romans Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to words of knowledge. Proverbs RT JarridWilson Nobody is too far gone for the reach of Jesus grace. Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Prov Jesus Christ was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Romans They said Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved... Acts RT TheGospels Words to LIVE by. Visit gt to signup for our daily inspirational emails. No one has ever seen God but if we love one another God lives in us and his love is made complete in us. John The righteousness that comes from God amp is by faith. Phil Pray for those who threaten you. Luke Youre not a failure until you stop trying. If you have no other testimony you have this one Im still here. RT FaithReeI After Sneaking Away From Their Hospital Beds You Wont Believe The Mischief These Kids Do. Clickgtgt ht Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again Rejoice Philippians One of the best gifts we can give ourselves is time alone with God. Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Matthew RT PrayInFaith Be Grateful. Show your gratitude. gt In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry amp do not give the devil a foothold. Eph If we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. John RT motherknow Motherhood rocks Look I am coming soon My reward is with me and I will give to everyone according to what they have done. Revelation I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. Deuteronomy If you love me obey my commandments. John A mans own folly ruins his life yet his heart rages against the LORD. Proverbs But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew My soul finds rest in God alone my salvation comes from him. Psalm Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Romans The thief comes only to steal amp kill amp destroy I have come that they may have life amp have it to the full. John Friends come and go but Jesus comes and stays. Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves ensure justice for those being crushed. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye This Dad amp Baby Out Flexing Each Other Is Awesomely Cute Clickgtgt Surely God is my salvation I will trust and not be afraid. Isaiah The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Gal RT ScriptureTruth By wisdom a house is built amp through understanding it is established Proverbs By wisdom a house is built amp through understanding it is established Proverbs Greater love has no one than this to lay down ones life for ones friends. John He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Prov RT FaithReeI Watch This Yr Old Have A Showdown With His Tap Dance Teacher Itll Make Your Day Clickgtgt Never let peoples negative thoughts about you hinder you from accomplishing what God put in your heart. Dare to dream and dare to live it. You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm Theres no fear in love. Instead complete love drives out fear John RT TheGospels Searching for more The Gospel Daily Visit gt Grace is God doing for us what we could never do and what we will never deserve. RT SaintlyLife Life is not about waiting for the storm to pass It is about learning to dance in the rain. I am with you always Matthew RT anthemofhope Hate destroys. Love builds. We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him who have been called according to his purpose. Rom RT JarridWilson My man... RT FaithReeI Wife Surprises Husband In Photo Booth With Pregnancy News Must See Clickgtgt I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is amp who was amp who is to come the Almighty. Revelation Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John RT LifeLimits Are or Arent YOU gt Praise the God amp Father of our Lord Jesus Christ He is the Father who is compassionate and the God who gives comfort. Corinthians Many are the woes of the wicked but the LORDs unfailing love surrounds the man who trusts in him. Psalm RT llovmydog Naughty dog You cant change what has already happened so choose to look ahead instead of behind you. Submit therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Be transformed by the renewing of your minds so that you may discern what is good amp acceptable amp perfect. Rom . We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Romans Do not seek the world.Seek PeaceSeek TruthSeek LoveSeek Christ For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Be transformed by the renewing of your minds so that you may discern what is good amp acceptable amp perfect. Rom Im a Christian. Im not perfect. Just because I mess up sometimes doesnt mean Im fake. Theres no such thing as a perfect Christian. Sometimes I just sit back and realize how blessed I am. God is great. I have amazing people in my life. I shouldnt complain. Praise Him I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Gal God never leads us where He cannot keep us. His grace is always sufficient for us in any and every circumstance of life. Not only so but we also glory in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces perseverance. Romans RT llovmydog So cute captions this picture. If we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. John He holds victory in store for the upright he is a shield to those whose walk is blameless. Proverbs A new commandment I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you that you also love one another. John The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil If your enemy is hungry give him food to eat if he is thirsty give him water to drink. Proverbs We know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John RT FaithReeI Orangutan Spots Baby In A Crowd And Slowly Closes In To Give It Kisses. Clickgtgtgt One who trusts in the Lord is secure. Proverbs . Make decisions based on what you know rather than what you feel. RT TheGospels Todays message was FOR YOU Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs . And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy If we live by the Spirit let us also be guided by the Spirit. Gala . A wise man is full of strength and a man of knowledge enhances his might. Proverbs When life is tough PRAY. When life is great PRAY. The Spirit gives life the flesh counts for nothing. The words I have spoken to you they are full of the Spirit amp life. John Truly I tell you whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers amp sisters of mine you did for me. Matthew You never really know yourself until you see yourself under pressure. RT amotherjoy Look at face. Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews RT LifeLimits Never Travel Alone. RT if you want this shirt. Get it here O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Isaiah God has a blessing with your name on it. If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer I sought the Lord amp He answered me amp delivered me from all my fears. Look to Him amp be radiant. Psalm Let us always meet each other with a smile for the smile is the beginning of love. Mother Teresa Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Proverbs The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own but the Father who dwells in me does his works. John . Protect me God when I take refuge in you Psalm Whatever God calls you to do He equips you to do as well. I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark RT llovmydog Fashionista Adorbable RT JarridWilson The world needs more encouragement and less judgement. I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm RT GodlyLife We all have setbacks in our yesterdays. But your past doesnt define your future. Today is a new day. And He told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray amp not lose heart. Luke Everyone will know that you are my disciples because of your love for each other. John Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter RT InspireUs Typical Cat Person. Cats gt People. gt When you pray dont give God instructions... Just report for duty Every setback is a setup for a comeback. God wants to bring you out better than you were before. RT FaithReeI The Reality About Having A Baby This Couple Will Have You Laughing. Clickgtgt Love each other as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life he who believes in Me will live even if he dies John RT TheGospels Secure your SUBSCRIPTION. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us our sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John If you want to know where youll be in yrs listen to what you talk about most now. Your tongue is a rudder James I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Proverbs Patience is not the ability to wait but how you act while youre waiting. RT FaithReeI He Took An Old Blanket To Antiques Roadshow amp What He Learns About It Brings Him To Tears Clickgtgt In the same way faith by itself if it is not accompanied by action is dead. James Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Rom Honor your father and mother so you may prosper and be a long time on the earth Ephesians Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew You are where God wants you to be at this very moment. Every experience is part of His divine plan. What we are is Gods gift to us. What we become is our gift to God. Eleanor Powell Commit to the LORD whatever you do and your plans will succeed. Proverbs . I sought the LORD and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Psalm RT TabithaKhaye Truck Driver Shows Tailgating Woman Something amp It Makes Her Think Twice Before Passing Cllickgtgt Jesus said that before the Second Coming If anyone tells you Look here is Christ... dont believe it Mark This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . God never promises the absence of storms. He just promises to walk with us through them. If you love me obey my commandments.John Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD with all your heart with all your soul with all your strength RT amotherjoy My new hair God knows us better than anyone else and thats why no one can love us like He does. RT SaintlyLife Never get so busy making a living that you forget to make a life. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart all your soul amp all your mind. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Matt . RT TabithaKhaye These Great Kitchen Tips Make Work So Quick amp Easy Youll Love Them. Clickgtgt God never tells us to do anything without giving us the ability to do it. see Philippians I dont care if you are following me follow Him. RT WomenOfHistory Ladies just for you... Peace comes when you pray. RT GodlyLife He himself bore our sins. Who says you need to were your cross as a necklace Available in S M amp L. gt We know that Jesus really is the Savior of the world. John RT FaithReeI This Drummed Version Of How Great Thou Art Is So Cool Must See Clickgtgt Doing what is right amp fair pleases the Lord more than an offering. Proverbs In his name the nations will put their hope. Matthew RT TheGospels Looking for some INSPIRATION Visit gt and sign up for our daily emails. But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm Nobody is in charge of your happiness except you. RT GodlyLife Dont make the choice to go back to where you came from. God has bigger plans for you. I came that you may have and enjoy life and have it in abundance until it overflows. John I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark RT FaithReeI Baby Penguin Is Looking For His Friend. When He Finds Him Its The Best Clickgtgtgt Scared Pray.Over thinking Pray.Losing hope Pray.Worried Pray.Struggling Pray.Pray and Trust in God. Please Retweet. As a dog goes back to its vomit so a fool repeats his stupidity. Proverbs Freely you have received freely give. Matthew One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts Dont fear for Im w u dont be dismayed for Im ur God. Ill strengthen u amp help u Ill uphold u w my righteous right hand Isa RT amotherjoy Beautiful Come unto me ye who are weary and overburdened and I will give you rest. Matthew RT QuoteSoup That about sums it up Never a Bad Day Fishing gt The entire law is summed up in a single command Love your neighbor as yourself. Galatians Teach them to do everything I have commanded you. And remember that I am always with you until the end of time. Matthew RT TabithaKhaye He Plays Hallelujah On Crystal Glasses Of Water And It Sounds Heavenly Clickgtgt For the grace of God has appeared bringing salvation to all men Titus Submit yourselves then to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Like a flood His mercy rains. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . RT anthemofhope Nothing is impossible the word itself says Im possibleAudrey Hepburn In all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your paths straight. Proverbs God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power amp of love amp of sound mind. Tim Humble yourselves therefore under Gods mighty hand that he may lift you up in due time. Peter But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Gal Praise to our God who grants us peace amp rest in Jesus Christ. RT ScriptureTruth I spread out my hands to you my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Psalm I spread out my hands to you my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Psalm Take delight in the LORD and he will give you the desires of your heart. Psalms RT Girlie SportsHQ BookOProverbs lol love it ... A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. Proverbs Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm RT FaithReeI Sometimes God removes things from our lives for our own protection. Trust in Him. And my God will supply all your needs according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians Little trials without God will break you. Big trials with God will make you. May you always find strength in Gods love and faithfulness. Love and value yourself. You are Gods creation and He paid a dear price for you to be alive today. RT TheGospels What are you THANKFUL for Today Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. You dont need to know what tomorrow holds. All you need to know is the One who holds tomorrow. RT SaintlyLife The reality is we are NOTHING without Jesus. But we are EVERYTHING in Him. When you focus on Gods promises instead of the problems youll notice your thoughts will be healthier and filled with peace. Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat RT FaithReeI What This Mom Says About Her Down Syndrome Baby Brought Us To Tears. Clickgtgt I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Phil Jesus answered It is written Man shall not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Matthew Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Proverbs RT QuoteSoup Happy Memorial Day Those who know your name trust you because you Lord dont abandon those who see you Psalm RT JesusGraces Great life Jesus Christ The eyes of the LORD are on those who fear him on those whose hope is in his unfailing love. Psalm RT amotherjoy Caption this photo. Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Matthew God is the ONLY one that can change someone. Leave it in his hands. Trials without God will break you. Trials with God will make you. You who hear prayer to you all men will come. Psalm The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil Satan is the curtain that attempts to separate us from God. Yank it down Praise God Set your minds on things above not on earthly things. Colossians Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians A man of knowledge uses words with restraint and a man of understanding is eventempered. Proverbs With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm And now these three remain faith hope and love. But the greatest of these is love Corinthians Love is patientLove is kind Love is not jealousLove does not bragLove is not arrogant Every house is built by someone but God is the builder of everything. Hebrews Let us fix our eyes on Jesus the author amp perfecter of our faith who for the joy set before him endured the cross. Heb RT LVSports Bring out the Schwinn. Available in styles colors and Sizes SX gt Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else. Thessalonians Jesus said to them I am the bread of life he who comes to Me will not hunger and he who believes in Me will never thirst. John RT FaithReeI German Shepherds Reaction To Group Of Baby Ducklings Is The Best Clickgtgt Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see. Hebrews Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm RT TheGospels Have FAITH in HIM. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew RT PrayInFaith You have been saved as a favor through faith. This doesnt come from yourselves. Its Gods gift Ephesians RT WomenOfChrist Give the gift that keeps giving Checkout Elevated Faiths monthly subscription gt Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Philippians RT FaithReeI Tim Tebow Couldnt Accept Fans Prom Invite Instead He Surprises Her In The Best Way Clickgtgt https Today forgive those that have hurt you amp forgive yourself so that you can walk in victory. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. James RT SportsGreats Summer time is here Bring on the bonfires camping smores. gt Jesus said to her I am the resurrection amp the life. Anyone who believes in me will live even though they die John RT llovmydog awwwww sweetest pic ever Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . My dear brothers amp sisters take note of this Everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak amp slow to become angry. James For whatever a man sows that shall he also reap. Galatians Make a tree good and its fruit will be good. Matthew Do everything in love. Corinthians Judge your worth and value by what God says about you in His Word not by how somebody else treats you. Ephesians God give us a helper against the oppressor for human help is worthless Psalm For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph In his name the nations will put their hope Matthew For I will restore health to you amp your wounds I will heal. Jeremiah . So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark When you hear that still small voice inside of you Thats God saying Be reasonable do it my way RT llovmydog I love playing in the mud. Wanna join me Worry increases pressure prayer releases peace. RT BibleTime Wrong doers eagerly listen to gossip liars pay close attention to slander. Proverbs A quicktempered man does foolish things and a crafty man is hated. Proverbs God always has a relief for every sorrow and a plan for every tomorrow. Jesus replied What is impossible with men is possible with God. Luke RT WomenSports RT if you ARE a CAMPING girl gt So then just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord continue to live your lives in him. Colossians We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John RT FaithReeI Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. If you had faith even as small as a mustard seed you could say to this mountain Move from here to there amp it would move. Matthew And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deut RT TheGospels Prayer is YOUR wireless connection to God. Visit gt If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for Matthew RT TheGospels Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matt A thousand times Ive failed still Your mercy remains. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you Peter RT FaithReeI When life is tough PRAY.When life is great PRAY. So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John RT InspireUs Younique whats wrong with that Get this shirt for the introvert in your crew. gt But God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Romans Blessed are those who mourn for they will be comforted. Matthew RT motherknow Can you relate Life is Gods novel. Let him write it. Isaac Bashevis Singer For it is by grace you have been saved through faithand this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph I believe in the sun even if it isnt shining. I believe in love even when I am alone. I believe in God even when He is silent. But I say to you who hear love your enemies do good to those who hate you Luke When you have doubts and questions choose to say Lord I believe. I may not always understand but I trust you. I am with you always. Matthew . God understands our prayers even when we cant find the words to say them. Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. All Scripture is Godbreathed amp is useful for teaching rebuking correcting and training in righteousness. Tim RT anthemofhope Depression lies. You have a purpose in this world. You will turn back to me amp ask for help and I will answer your prayers. Jeremiah This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering amp sacrifice to God. Eph RT llovebeingmom Sad but true A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Proverbs You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm The righteousness of the upright delivers them but the unfaithful are trapped by evil desires Proverbs My soul is satisfied as with a rich feast. Psalms . Let us not become weary in doing good for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Galatians So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John RT JarridWilson Being real with people will bring you more influence than pretending to have it all together ever could. Jesus gives you inner peace. That peace is radiated out. O LORD my God I called to you for help amp you healed me. Psalm Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matthew RT ScriptureTruth Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your requests Dont brag about yourself let others praise you. Proverbs Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil RT JarridWilson Being real with people will bring you more influence than pretending to have it all together ever could. For the LORD loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. Psalm RT FaithReeI One of the best gifts we can give ourselves is time alone with God. Some people talk about finding God as if He could get lost. The kingdom of God is within you. Luke Always be in prayer for loved ones who have not accepted Christ as their savior Repent then amp turn to God so that your sins may be wiped out that times of refreshing may come from the Lord. Acts RT happpydog Four Legged Love is the best If you like this shirt you can get it at this link gt Give God your problems and allow Him to give you solutions. Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil So I say walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. Galatians Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Mat It is to a mans honor to avoid strife but every fool is quick to quarrel. Proverbs Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isa Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians The world and its desires pass away but the man who does the will of God lives forever. John Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Mat And He said...your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. RT llovmydog Am I pretty God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Romans RT ArmorOGod Being a Christian isnt just about following commandments its about letting Christ take possession of our lives Pope Fran Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Cor RT FwJesus Yes please Lord do See how many people stop to read your shirt gt You sin God forgives.You worry Gods in control.Youre empty God restores.Youre alone God is with you. RT daiIyscripture God is bigger than all our ups and downs Show everyone GOD has your back gt Everytime you forgive you disappoint the devil. As one whom his mother comforts so will I will comfort you. Isa RT FaithReeI Want to find happiness in your life Appreciate the small stuff. You are blessed more than you realize. Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Prov The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs So when you a mere human pass judgment on them amp yet do the same things do you think you will escape Gods judgment Romans RT TheGospels God will always intervene when we need it most. Subscribe to our daily emails gt Jesus Christ endured more than we can ever imagine just for the chance at a relationship with us. ForeverThankful RT ArmorOGod In God we will be strong Psalm RT FaithReeI Tim Tebow Couldnt Accept Fans Prom Invite Instead He Surprises Her In The Best Way Clickgtgt A quicktempered man does foolish things Prov Start children off on the way they should go and even when they are old they will not turn from it. Proverbs For if you forgive others when they sin against you your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Matthew The Lord is a shield for all who take refuge in him Psalm He who covers his sins will not prosper but whoever confesses amp forsakes them will have mercy. Proverbs Jesus never said it would be easy but He said it would be worth it Matt Cast your burden upon the LORD and He will sustain you He will never allow the righteous to be shaken. Psalm A righteous man cares for the needs of his animal but the kindest acts of the wicked are cruel. Proverbs RT JesusGraces HE will GUIDE YOU Available for sizes Sx amp styles. gt The fear of the LORD teaches a man wisdom and humility comes before honor. Proverbs Be strong and of good courage do not fear... for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. Deuteronomy . Jesus didnt die so we could have religion. He died so we could have a deep intimate personal relationship with God. Save me from people of the world Psalm Exercise daily. Walk with the Lord Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. Matthew The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . You need to be moving if you want God to show you which way to go. He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa He who covers over an offense promotes love but whoever repeats the matter separates close friends. Proverbs Be a blessing to someone today. Proverbs Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke RT BibleTime Everything can be done for a believer. Mark For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph Honesty can keep you safe but if you cant be trusted you trap yourself. Proverbs Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Matthew Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew When you start focusing on a loving God whos given everything amp stop focusing on what seems to be going wrong you will see breakthrough. There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John Get Gods plan before making your own plans. RT TheGospels Prayer is ALWAYS the answer. Signup for our daily emails gt For everyone who asks receives those who seek find and to those who knock the door will be opened. Matthew RT BibleTime Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter My whole being is happy Psalm Honor your father and your mother so that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you. Exodus I asked God for strength and God gave me difficulties to make me strong. Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters. Hebrews Never let anyone tell you that you cant do something because the Bible says you can do all things through him which strengthens you. We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Rom RT motherknow Shot for the moon and if you miss you will land among the stars. RT happpydog Dogs Keep Us GROUNDED. RT if you agree. gt Therefore if anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has gone the new has come Corinthians Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . If people cant see what God is doing they stumble over themselves when they attend to what he reveals they are most blessed Proverbs Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Corinthians Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Matthew This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . Cast but a glance at riches amp they are gone for they will surely sprout wings amp fly off to the sky like an eagle. Proverbs Serve the Lord with fear amp rejoice with trembling. Psalm This is the day which the LORD has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Rom God is able to provide you with every blessing in abundance. Corinthians . If we confess our sins he is faithful and righteous so he may forgive us for our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness John RT motherknow Adulting is not for wimps Nothing completely covered will remain covered and nothing hidden will remain unknown. Luke I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. Phil But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Prov The proverbs of Solomon A wise son brings joy to his father but a foolish son grief to his mother. Proverbs RT FaithReeI God has a wonderful way of turning negatives into positives. So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark I am with you always. Matthew . RT TheGospels Lets begin today with a PRAYER. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Jesus answered I am the way and the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John RT FaithReeI A friend loves at all times amp a brother is born for adversity. Prov God gives different people different talents. Wherever He has you He has you there for a purpose. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm J E S U S I S M Y S A V I O U R Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Psalm I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians We brought nothing into the world nor can we take anything out of it Timothy When fear knocks on the door answer with faith RT amotherjoy Caption this photo. The LORD is compassionate amp gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter Hear my prayer God. Dont hide from my request. Pay attention to me and respond to me Psalm Godgiven struggles dont come to stay they come to pass. Just be patient. Wait while God works for you. I am with you always. Matthew . Have the courage to make the change the strength to see you through it and faith that everything will turn out for the best. I know that my redeemer lives and that in the end he will stand on the earth. Job O LORD my God I called to you for help and you healed me. Psalm And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke A mans pride shall bring him low but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. Proverbs RT motherknow Its that simple Before they call I will answer while they are yet speaking I will hear. Isaiah . RT anthemofhope The Lord is my strength and song.Isaiah RT BookOProverbs A wise man is full of strength amp a man of knowledge enhances his might. Proverbs Jesus said Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest Matthew The wicked man earns deceptive wages but he who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward. Proverbs He who kneels before God can stand before anyone RT JarridWilson Sometimes God might not give you an answer right away. But Hes there to lean on and sometimes thats all we really need. I also say to you that you are Peter and upon this rock I will build My church and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. Matt RT FamousWomen You had me at WOOF. gt As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Do not let your heart be troubled believe in God believe also in Me. John RT TheGospels Join our community by VISITING gt Sign up for our daily emails. If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew RT JesusGraces God will not allow a trial to come into your life unless He has a purpose. He doesnt send the storms but He uses them. Pray amp let God worry Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Psalm Im a failure. Hes my forgiverIm a sinner. Hes my savior.Im broken. Hes my healer.Im His child. Hes my God. With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth no sacrifice for sins is left. Heb Words are like seeds. They have creative power. Isaiah says We will eat the fruit of our words. What seeds are you planting The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are Gods children. Romans RT lnspireme Classy with a little. Get it here Ladies gt Smile things are working out. You may not see it now but just know God is directing you. Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Galatians Order my steps in thy word amp let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Psalm God has a perfect timing for everything. Learn to wait on Him. This brings Him honor and it brings you peace. see Psalm Your actions speak so loud I cant hear your words Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isaiah I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Galatians Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you whom you have from God... Cor Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Chronicles LET JESUS TAKE THE WHEEL. RT BookOProverbs Do not boast about tomorrow for you do not know what a day may bring forth. Proverbs I am a divine creation one of Gods masterpieces. RT QuoteSoup Yes They Sure DO gt Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil amp he will flee from you James Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matt For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil cling to what is good. Romans Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew RT TheGospels Secure your SUBSCRIPTION. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Be a blessing to someone today Prov Need some inspiration Listen to this podcast on prayer And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy RT GODsGraces Grace is God doing for us what we could never do and what we will never deserve. God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love amp of sound mind. Timothy Teach me the way of life. Fill me with the joy of your presence Psalm I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Revelation Taste and see that the LORD is good blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Psalm He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Gods plan for your life gt Your plan for your life. What you do in front of people is nothing if you are not living the same life at home behind closed doors. Matthew For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts God has a wonderful way of turning negatives into positives. Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Cor Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . If the world hates you keep in mind that it hated me first. John I urge you brothers in view of Gods mercy to offer your bodies as living sacrifices holy and pleasing to God. Romans Life is not fair but God is always faithful. Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of His might. Ephesians Keep falsehood amp lies far from me give me neither poverty nor riches but give me only my daily bread. Proverbs RT llovmydog Too much cuteness in one picture. But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Galatians O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Is RT FaithReeI Exercise daily. Walk with the Lord Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Timothy Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians The LORD God said It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Genesis Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew RT FaithReeI Toddler Tells His Dog To Play With The Sprinkler The Dogs Reaction Is The Best Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter God may not get us out of a situation but He will give us the strength to get through it. It is done unto you as you believe. Matthew RT TheGospels What are you THANKFUL for Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. The grass withers and the flowers fall but the word of our God stands forever. Isaiah Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matthew Light a fire on the inside. You have the seed of Almighty God. Dont allow something small to keep you from Gods best. RT FaithReeI Pregnant Mom On The Edge Of Death Gets An Incredible Miracle. Clickgtgt Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the sons of God. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John I am the LORD that is my name I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. Isaiah RT EpicWomen Yes They Sure DO gt The Lord my God lights my darkness Psalm I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Prov Wrong doers eagerly listen to gossip liars pay close attention to slander. Proverbs Finally all of you live in harmony with one another be sympathetic love as brothers be compassionate and humble. Peter Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews A good name is more desirable than great wealth. Respect is better than silver or gold. Proverbs I called Lord and I was saved from those who hate me Psalm RT TabithaKhaye Year Old Gigantic Tree Is So Massive It Couldnt Be Photographed Fully Til Now Clickgtgt htt Pleasant words are as a honeycomb sweet to the mind amp healing to the body. Proverbs You shall call and the Lord will answer. Isaiah . Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Corinthians Everything can be done for a believer. Mark No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor Gods Laws are more desirable than gold yes more than much refined gold Psalm Do not brag about tomorrow because you do not know what another day may bring. Proverbs RT llovmydog Cutest pic ever Wherever you are going God has already been there and paved the way for you. Matt Do not judge so that you will not be judged. Matthew But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness amp all these things will be given to you as well. Matt RT JarridWilson Ive officially launched my new podcast Subscribe and download my first episode. In his heart a man plans his course but the LORD determines his steps. Proverbs RT SportsGreats That about sums it up Never a Bad Day Fishing gt If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew The LORD is compassionate and gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm My salvation and my honor depend on God he is my mighty rock my refuge. Psalm RT TheGospels Join us by VISITING and subscribing to our daily emails. You are the light of the world. Matthew . RT LovLikeJesus Keep on praying for faith it is through prayer that you develop all your wonderful qualities of soul. Myrtle Fillmore Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world but that the world might be saved through Him. John RT FaithReeI This Friars Voice As He Sings Amazing Grace Gave Us Chills Hes That Good Clickgtgt Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest. Matthew RT JesusGraces Love the HELL gt We dont begin to know what freedom is until we come to a place in our lives where we have no need to impress anybody. God will help you overcome wrong motives and intentions if youll simply ask and receive help rather than trying to do it on your own. But I say to you love your enemies amp pray for those who persecute you. Matthew So if you think you are standing firm be careful that you dont fall Corinthians Good people bring out good things from the good stored in them. Matthew I seek you with all my heart do not let me stray from your commands. Psalm Jesus replied Very truly I tell you no one can see the kingdom of God without being born again. John Create in me a clean heart O God and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Psalm Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Jame Delight yourself in the LORD and hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Mat . If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Romans For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph God sees your pain. He will supply an opportunity. He will provide a way. Bigger and greater than before Seek ye first his kingdom and righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Matthew RT DavidRoads Promote what you love instead of bashing what you hate. Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Heb RT BibleTime Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh G O D I S G O O D RT JesusGraces Words to live by. Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world the love of the Father is not in him. John Say to wisdom You are my sister amp call understanding your intimate friend Proverbs Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. James RT FaithReeI Youll Be Shocked At Whats Done With The Soap From Hotels After You Leave clickgtgt God gt My fearsGod gt My insecuritiesGod gt My worryGod gt My everything RT TheGospels Visit gt and signup for our inspirational messages For everything there is a season a time for every activity under heaven. Ecclesiastes RT GodlyLife I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ amp the love of God amp the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Cor And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matt RT FaithReeI Blind Man Is About To See His Wifeamp Baby For The st Time. What He Says Made Us Get The Tissues Clickgtgt God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love and of sound mind. Tim God loves you because of who God is not because of anything you did or didnt do. Regina Brett Greater love has no one than this that one lay down his life for his friends. John As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil RT JasonJocque AmazedByAnimals GodLoved RT AmazedByAnimals Coffee amp Dog. gt Some people are hurting so bad you have to do more than preach a message to them. You have to BE a message to them. For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matthew When God is all you have then all you have is all you need. And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Teach me and I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job God gt The World If you want to give the devil a nervous breakdown get up every day and be as happy as you can possibly be With men it is impossible but to God all things are possible. Matthew Lord Youre more than enough for me. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm RT motherknow So true Love your neighbor as yourself. Mat RT AthIetesForGod To give anything less than your best is to sacrifice the gift. Steve Prefontaine Dont let this Book of the Law depart from your mouth meditate on it day and night. Joshua My connection to God allows me to create all the good in my live. The Lord lives Psalm RT InspireUs I have yet to beginRT if this has EVER been YOU gt Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs Dont be afraid be inspired. God gave us talents and He wants us to use them. RT FaithReeI Steps To Escaping A Car Sinking In Water Knowing This Could Save Your Life. Clickgtgt Let your light shine forth before men that they may see your good works amp give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter RT TheGospels Mirror HIS image. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor The light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it. John RT BibleTime Dont be afraid be inspired. God gave us talents and He wants us to use them. RT JarridWilson Do Christians overcomplicate prayer w adamweber Download episode of my new podcast. When you are tempted he will provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Corinthians Every word of God is flawless he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Proverbs RT FaithReeI DNA Test Result On Her Baby Has Mom Speechless amp Collapsed On The Floor clickgtgt For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John If you love me keep my commands. John Do not let kindness amp truth leave you Bind them around your neck Write them on the tablet of your heart. Prov Mercy peace and love be yours in abundance. Jude May the God of hope fill you with all joy amp peace in believing. Romans . RT lnspiredLife RT if YOU...Dream BIG. Dream LOUD. gt Its time to rise above those negative circumstances and believe what God says about you. You are blessed favored loved For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do do it all for the glory of God. Corinthians Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matt Jesus looked at them and said With man this is impossible but with God all things are possible. Matthew RT TabithaKhaye Popular School Girls Bully Janitor Until He Does Something That Makes Their Jaws Drop Clickgtgt Nothing will be impossible to you. Mat Is anyone among you in trouble Let them pray. Is anyone happy Let them sing songs of praise. James Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John Take up the whole armor of God so you may be able to stand in the evil day Ephesians A man of knowledge uses words with restraint amp a man of understanding is eventempered. Prov If anyone is in Christ there is a new creation. Corinthians In all your ways acknowledge him amp he will make your paths straight. Prov RT JarridWilson A pastor who acts like theyve got it all together is normally a pastor who lacks humility. Thats not a pastor I recomme If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God God lives in him and he in God. John Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John Jesus Christ paid the ultimate price of dying for our sins so that we might gain the ultimate prize of a relationship with Him. Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh The Lord is an avenger Thessalonians For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John Selfishness is weakness. But loving and caring for others is a position of power beyond anything we can possibly imagine. Godloyal people living honest lives make it much easier for their children. Proverbs RT TheGospels My soul is satisfied as with a rich feast. Psalms . Too often we spend all of our time seeking God for answers to our problems when what we should be doing is just seeking God. Dont worry it never helps anything. Pray Trust God Let it go RT FaithReeI Cute Flower Girl Schools Dad On How He Doesnt Understand Weddings Clickgtgt LORD MAKE ME AN INSTRUMENT OF YOUR PEACE Where theres hate let me sow love Where theres injury pardon Where theres despair hope Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John Then Jesus said Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God John By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John How much better it is to get skillful amp Godly Wisdom than gold amp to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver. Proverbs If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians Let your light shine forth before men that they may see your good works amp give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew God is our refuge and strength a very present help in trouble. Psalms Surely God is my salvation I will trust amp not be afraid. Isa Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . God loves us. We must not be afraid to love him. Pope Francis Some of Gods greatest gifts are unanswered prayers. Garth Brooks Want to find happiness in your life Appreciate the small stuff. You are blessed more than you realize. And He said... your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew Make up your mind that youre not going to quit until you see the fruit of what God has placed within you. God has a more awesome plan for your life than you could ever imagine simply because He loves you RT llovmycat Awww a cold little kitty. GOD IS THE REASON WHY In pain I smile In confusion I understand. In betrayal I trust. In fear I push forward. RT FaithReeI Serve the Lord with fear amp rejoice with trembling. Psalm God is the best part of my life. Without Him I cant imagine where Id be. Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matthew For everyone who asks receives and he who seeks finds and to him who knocks it will be opened. Matthew God has never stopped being good weve just stop being grateful. RT WomenOfChrist GOD made us BFFs gt People should always pray and not give up Luke You can decide to trust God or you can decide to be miserable. Decide today that you wont give up on your dreams and desires. Keep pressing forward believing that you are anointed and empowered. RT TheGospels Treat EACH amp EVERY day like a new beginning. gt Visit amp signup for our inspirational emails https Jesus died for you knowing you might never love Him back. THAT is true love. I love you O LORD my strength. Psalm RT TabithaKhaye Grandma Teaches Adorable Wk Old Baby Sign Language. Clickgtgt Despite their desires the lazy will come to ruin for their hands refuse to work. Proverbs RT FaithReeI Its Viral Home Alone See What Happens When Mom Isnt There. Clickgtgt You have been saved as a favor through faith. This doesnt come from yourselves. Its Gods gift Ephesians GOD LOVES YOU He will be there for you. He will make a way for you. He will wipe away your tears. He will be your best friend. You will turn back to me amp ask for help amp I will answer your prayers Jer The path of lazy people is overgrown with briers the diligent walk down a smooth road. Proverbs God will never lead you wrong. RT SportsGreats RT If YOU are the HAPPY CAMPER gt Salvation is found in no one else for there is no other name given under heaven by which we must be saved. Acts God wants your st relationship to be with Him. Then one another then outreach to the world. Eph Trust the LORD amp his mighty power. Psalm Pride goes before destruction a haughty spirit before a fall. Proverbs Hold your head up high and know God is in control he has a perfect plan for your life. Keep your mind going in the right direction and your life will catch up with it. My command is this Love each other as I have loved you. John In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry amp do not give the devil a foothold. Eph Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it. Proverbs God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Rom Pride only breeds quarrels but wisdom is found in those who take advice. Proverbs The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . RT TabithaKhaye Things that you enjoy are never a waste of time everything else is suspect. Never let loyalty and kindness leave you Tie them around your neck as a reminder. Write them deep within your heart. Proverbs RT FwJesus Love and value yourself. You are Gods creation and He paid a dear price for you to be alive today. For the Spirit God gave us does not make us timid but gives us power love and selfdiscipline. Timothy RT InspireUs You know you have a friend who absolutely needs this gt Praise the LORD O my soul all my inmost being praise his holy name. Psalm Praise God even when you dont understand what Hes doing. If you cant control what you think you will not be able to control what you do. Jesus Gives Hope. RT FaithReeI This Tribute To Mothers Proves Its The Worlds Best amp Hardest Job And Heres Why Clickgtgt htt Frustration complication and misery are available in abundance but so is Gods grace. Walk boldly through the doors God opens for you and dont become discouraged when He closes one. RT TheGospels Lets begin today with a PRAYER. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. When you take time with God and listen to His voice He renews your strength and enables you to handle life. RT TheGospels Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom For God alone my soul waits in silence. Psalm And nothing will be impossible for you. Matthew . For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts God u all u need RT JesusGraces Happy Mothers Day RT InspireUs Can you find a better morning combination One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts I am a Christian. That does not mean I am perfect. Just forgiven. God has a bright future in store for you Keep standing Keep believing Keep hoping Be on your guard stand firm in the faith be men of courage be strong. Corinthians Create in me a clean heart O God. Psalm . Love is not a feeling we have its a decision to treat people the way Jesus would treat them. In God we will be strong Psalm I pray to you my protector. Psalm A friend loves at all times amp a brother is born for adversity. Prov You will be secure because there is hope you will look about you amp take your rest in safety. Job Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Humility and the fear of the LORD bring wealth and honor and life. Proverbs Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil Every word of God is pure He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Proverbs And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT motherknow Adulting is not for wimps For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Romans RT JarridWilson God isnt done with you just because you messed up. His grace is available. A second chance is waiting. Hes got plans fo Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John God is spirit and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth. John The God who made the world amp everything in it is the Lord of heaven amp earth amp does not live in temples built by hands. Acts Disappointments were not meant to destroy you. They were meant to strengthen you amp give you fortitude to accomplish your Godgiven destiny. Never underestimate the power of a prayer. One small prayer can change your life dramatically. RT FaithReeI Watch This Yr Old Have A Showdown With His Tap Dance Teacher Itll Make Your Day Clickgtgt Dont worry if youre single. God is looking at you right now saying Im saving this one for someone special What God intended for you goes far beyond anything you can imagine. Never lose hope and hang on to Gods hand. RT TheGospels Words to LIVE by. Visit gt to signup for our daily inspirational emails. Always keep your head up because if its down you wont be able to see the blessings that have been placed in your life. I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark RT daiIyscripture Many books can INFORM you but the Bible can TRANSFORM you. If you do good to those who are good to you what credit is that to you Even sinners do that. Luke It is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . Happiness is not based on your circumstances but on a decision you make. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke days without prayer makes one weak Trust the LORD amp his mighty power. Psalm RT llovmycat Cutest kitten ever Trust in Him Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Hebrews Let go of the disappointments and setbacks in your life and hang on to the promises of God for your future. Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Tim It is you who made the heavens and the earth by your great power. Nothing is too hard for you. Jeremiah Each person you meet is Jesus in disguise. Mother Teresa Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter The Lord is at my right hand so that I wont be shaken Acts I tell you not to worry about your life. Matthew But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm Delight yourself in the LORD amp hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm In your relationships with one another have the same attitude of mind Christ Jesus had Philippians God remains in us and his love in us is made complete. John RT AthIetesForGod Dont be a spectator dont let life pass you by. Lou Holtz I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. Romans Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat When I think of all the stuff Ive been through I have confidence I can get through this. I trust that God will take care of me. With God all things are possible. Matthew RT FaithReeI Gone Viral This Popping Hip Hop Dance Is Mesmerizing Clickgtgt Jesus answered I am the way amp the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John Respect those who caution you Thessalonians I fall asleep in peace the moment I lie down because you alone O LORD enable me to live securely. Psalm . RT TheGospels Looking for some INSPIRATION Visit gt and sign up for our daily emails. Before his downfall a mans heart is proud but humility comes before honor. Proverbs RT JesusGraces Take your pain and turn it into something great. Put your energy towards bettering your life and starting something new. He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa Never lose faith. God loves you too much to let you down. RT FaithReeI Cute Baby Koala Imogen Climbs Up People To Get Hugs amp Steals Hearts Clickgtgt Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter . Unless you change and become like little children you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Matthew Great peace have those who love your law nothing can make them stumble. Psalm . God Is There Even When Youre At Your Lowest. Hes Working Things Out Even When You Dont Know It. The Lord will be a refuge for the oppressed a refuge for times of trouble Psalm RT amotherjoy Adorable The Lords word is pure Psalm . RT EpicWomen From the Bottom to the Top YOU are PERFECT gt A positive attitude gives you power over your circumstances instead of your circumstances having power over you. Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm. Make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be holy without holiness no one will see the Lord. Hebrews Wishing will NEVER be a substitute for prayer. RT InspireUs Baby Fennec Foxes Take Their First Bubble Bath. This Is A Cuteness Overload clickgtgt Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ the Father of compassion amp the God of all comfort. Cor If we say that we have no sin we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. John Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew Happy moments Praise GodDifficult moments Seek GodQuiet moments Worship GodDifficult moments Trust GodEvery moment Thank God Satan seeks to defeat you by tempting you to trust your own wisdom to live according to ur selfcentered feelings and to gratify your flesh RT llovmycat Beautiful Jesus said to him I am the way and the truth and the life no one comes to the Father but through Me. John RT TheGospels But God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Romans Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind amp with all your strength. Mark RT LifeLimits I really DO Babe To the FRIDGE and back God not only sees where you are He sees where you can be. Trusting God is more than what you can see. Walk by FAITH not by sight. Without love we dont feel anything.Without dreams we dont accomplish anything.Without God we arent anything. RT FaithReeI People Are Flocking To See A Real Life Size Replica Of Noahs Ark amp Its Absolutely Amazing Clickgtgt As churning the milk produces butter and as twisting the nose produces blood so stirring up anger produces strife. Proverbs God is our refuge and strength a very present help in trouble. Psalms Satan seeks to defeat you by tempting you to trust your own wisdom. TRUST IN GOD. RT TabithaKhaye This Champion Dance Group Has Gone Viral. Must See Clickgtgt You are a child of God. Youre playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking. I put on the Full Armor of God Ephesians Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. This is the first amp greatest commandment. Matt RT FaithReeI Men Said LaborBirth Pain Isnt That Bad Then They Try A Labor Simulator. Lol Clickgtgt Be on your guard stand firm in the faith be men of courage be strong. Cor What is desired in a man is kindness amp a poor man is better than a liar. Proverbs If ye love me keep my commandments. John The tongue has the power of life and death and those who love it will eat its fruit. Proverbs The thief comes only to steal amp kill amp destroy I have come that they may have life amp have it to the full. John RT LifeLimits Sometimes it just happens gt You may have weaknesses but God has strength. You may have sin but God has grace. You may fail but God remains faithful I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess Draw near to God and He will draw near to you James For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this is not from yourselves it is the gift of God Ephesians Love is patient love is kind and is not jealous love does not brag and is not arrogant Corinthians Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer amp petition w thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer Selfrestraint amp gentle speech are effective against stubborn opposition. Dont procrastinate theres no time to lose. Proverbs When you are tempted he will provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Cor He who believes in the Son has eternal life but he who does not obey the Son will not see life but the wrath of God abides on him. Jn You ask in prayer but dont receive it because you ask wrongly wanting to squander it on pleasure James RT amotherjoy The Power of a Mothers Love It was for freedom that Christ set us free therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. Galatians RT GodLoved Have faith God will provide. Gods will is not an itinerary but an attitude. Andrew Dhuse RT InspireUs Typical Cat Person. Cats gt People. gt If you can believe all things are possible to him who believeth. Mark Some say God loves us if we change. The Gospel says Gods love CHANGES us. I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Those who mock the poor insult their Maker those who rejoice at the misfortune of others will be punished. Proverbs He who conceals his hatred has lying lips and whoever spreads slander is a fool. Proverbs Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . A man can no more diminish Gods glory by refusing worship him than a lunatic can put out the sun by scribbling the word darkness RT GodlyLife Selfrestraint amp gentle speech are effective against stubborn opposition. I cant believe that God put us on this earth to be ordinary. Lou Holtz He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John RT FaithReeI Babys Getting To Hear Mom amp Dad For The st Time. Its So Precious. Must See Clickgtgt Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs Pray that we may be given a hunger amp burning desire to fellowship more closely with Jesus I love you O LORD my strength. Psalm Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Romans RT amotherjoy Hi there If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us ur sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John And the crooked shall be made straight amp the rough ways shall be made smooth. Luke . If you love Me you will keep My commandments. John A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Prov We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him who have been called according to his purpose. Romans Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to words of knowledge. Proverbs Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Prov Jesus Christ was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Romans They said Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved... Acts No one has ever seen God but if we love one another God lives in us and his love is made complete in us. John RT FaithReeI Pregnant Mom On The Edge Of Death Gets An Incredible Miracle. Clickgtgt The righteousness that comes from God amp is by faith. Phil RT JarridWilson Suicide is not the answer. God loves you. Your life matters. You have a purpose in this world. Pray for those who threaten you. Luke RT motherknow Best work out ever Youre not a failure until you stop trying. If you have no other testimony you have this one Im still here. RT WomenOfChrist This is one of the best prayers Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again Rejoice Philippians One of the best gifts we can give ourselves is time alone with God. Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Matthew RT JarridWilson God is in the business of embracing people despite their brokenness not turning them away. Its called grace. In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry amp do not give the devil a foothold. Eph If we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. John RT FaithReeI Love can melt the hardest heart heal the wounds of the broken heart and quiet the fears of the anxious heart. Look I am coming soon My reward is with me and I will give to everyone according to what they have done. Revelation I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. RT TheGospels Have Faith in HIS message. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. Deuteronomy RT TheGospels Teach me and I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job If you love me obey my commandments. John A mans own folly ruins his life yet his heart rages against the LORD. Proverbs But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew RT FaithReeI Year Old Gigantic Tree Is So Massive It Couldnt Be Photographed Fully Until Now Clickgtgt http My soul finds rest in God alone my salvation comes from him. Psalm Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Romans The thief comes only to steal amp kill amp destroy I have come that they may have life amp have it to the full. John Friends come and go but Jesus comes and stays. Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves ensure justice for those being crushed. Proverbs RT amotherjoy Smile Surely God is my salvation I will trust and not be afraid. Isaiah The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Gal By wisdom a house is built amp through understanding it is established Proverbs Greater love has no one than this to lay down ones life for ones friends. John He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Prov RT TabithaKhaye Piano Guys Combine Fight Song amp Amazing Grace And The Results So Good I Got Chills Clickgtgt Never let peoples negative thoughts about you hinder you from accomplishing what God put in your heart. Dare to dream and dare to live it. You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm Theres no fear in love. Instead complete love drives out fear John Grace is God doing for us what we could never do and what we will never deserve. I am with you always Matthew RT amotherjoy Little genius We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him who have been called according to his purpose. Rom RT PrayInFaith So true. I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is amp who was amp who is to come the Almighty. Revelation RT LifeLimits Absolutely gt Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John Praise the God amp Father of our Lord Jesus Christ He is the Father who is compassionate and the God who gives comfort. Corinthians Many are the woes of the wicked but the LORDs unfailing love surrounds the man who trusts in him. Psalm RT FaithReeI Husband Surprises His Wife After He Tracks Down amp Buys Back Her Childhood Camper. Clickgtgt http You cant change what has already happened so choose to look ahead instead of behind you. RT JarridWilson No mess is too messy for the grace of Jesus. Submit therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Be transformed by the renewing of your minds so that you may discern what is good amp acceptable amp perfect. Rom . RT TheGospels Join our community by VISITING gt Sign up for our daily emails. We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Romans RT GodlyLife But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness amp all these things will be given to you as well. Matt Do not seek the world.Seek PeaceSeek TruthSeek LoveSeek Christ For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John RT FaithReeI He Plays Hallelujah On Crystal Glasses Of Water And It Sounds Heavenly clickgtgt Be transformed by the renewing of your minds so that you may discern what is good amp acceptable amp perfect. Rom Im a Christian. Im not perfect. Just because I mess up sometimes doesnt mean Im fake. Theres no such thing as a perfect Christian. Sometimes I just sit back and realize how blessed I am. God is great. I have amazing people in my life. I shouldnt complain. Praise Him I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Gal God never leads us where He cannot keep us. His grace is always sufficient for us in any and every circumstance of life. RT FamousWomen Younique whats wrong with that Get this shirt for the introvert in your crew. gt Not only so but we also glory in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces perseverance. Romans If we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. John He holds victory in store for the upright he is a shield to those whose walk is blameless. Proverbs A new commandment I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you that you also love one another. John The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil If your enemy is hungry give him food to eat if he is thirsty give him water to drink. Proverbs We know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John One who trusts in the Lord is secure. Proverbs . Make decisions based on what you know rather than what you feel. Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs . And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy If we live by the Spirit let us also be guided by the Spirit. Gala . RT DavidRoads Be careful with your words. Once they are said they can only be forgiven nor forgotten. A wise man is full of strength and a man of knowledge enhances his might. Proverbs RT FwJesus Everytime you forgive you disappoint the devil. RT BookOProverbs Yes please Lord do See how many people stop to read your shirt gt When life is tough PRAY. When life is great PRAY. The Spirit gives life the flesh counts for nothing. The words I have spoken to you they are full of the Spirit amp life. John Truly I tell you whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers amp sisters of mine you did for me. Matthew You never really know yourself until you see yourself under pressure. RT FaithReeI U.S. Marines Sing Days Of Elijah So Good Youll Want To Join In Clickgtgt Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews RT FwJesus Get your mom for Mothers Day the gift that keeps on giving.. Elevated Faiths monthly club gt https O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Isaiah God has a blessing with your name on it. RT TheGospels Subscribe gt Visit gt If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians RT AthIetesForGod When your legs give out play with your heart For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer RT JarridWilson No mess it too messy for the grace of Jesus. I sought the Lord amp He answered me amp delivered me from all my fears. Look to Him amp be radiant. Psalm RT FaithReeI Cute Baby Koala Imogen Climbs Up People To Get Hugs amp Steal Hearts Clickgtgt Let us always meet each other with a smile for the smile is the beginning of love. Mother Teresa RT JesusGraces Faith tramples fears Like this shirt Want one for yourself or another Get it here gt Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Proverbs The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own but the Father who dwells in me does his works. John . Protect me God when I take refuge in you Psalm Whatever God calls you to do He equips you to do as well. RT llovmycat I wanna have this kitty as a gift for my next birthday. I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm And He told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray amp not lose heart. Luke Everyone will know that you are my disciples because of your love for each other. John Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter When you pray dont give God instructions... Just report for duty Every setback is a setup for a comeback. God wants to bring you out better than you were before. Love each other as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John RT TabithaKhaye Twin Babies Team Up And Attack Dad In The Cutest Way clickgtgt Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life he who believes in Me will live even if he dies John If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us our sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John If you want to know where youll be in yrs listen to what you talk about most now. Your tongue is a rudder James I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Proverbs Patience is not the ability to wait but how you act while youre waiting. RT FaithReeI Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews In the same way faith by itself if it is not accompanied by action is dead. James Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Rom Honor your father and mother so you may prosper and be a long time on the earth Ephesians Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew RT FaithReeI Youll Be Shocked At Whats Done With The Soap From Hotels After You Leave Clickgtgt You are where God wants you to be at this very moment. Every experience is part of His divine plan. What we are is Gods gift to us. What we become is our gift to God. Eleanor Powell RT TheGospels Secure your SUBSCRIPTION. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Commit to the LORD whatever you do and your plans will succeed. Proverbs . RT GodlyLife Clear yourself of worry and focus on what is important. I sought the LORD and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Psalm Jesus said that before the Second Coming If anyone tells you Look here is Christ... dont believe it Mark This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . RT FaithReeI Steps To Escaping A Car Sinking In Water Knowing This Could Save Your Life. Clickgtgt God never promises the absence of storms. He just promises to walk with us through them. RT TheDaiIyPuppy Boy did they peg me Available in colors both genders sizes Sx. gt If you love me obey my commandments.John Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD with all your heart with all your soul with all your strength God knows us better than anyone else and thats why no one can love us like He does. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart all your soul amp all your mind. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Matt . God never tells us to do anything without giving us the ability to do it. see Philippians I dont care if you are following me follow Him. Peace comes when you pray. We know that Jesus really is the Savior of the world. John Doing what is right amp fair pleases the Lord more than an offering. Proverbs In his name the nations will put their hope. Matthew But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm Nobody is in charge of your happiness except you. RT anthemofhope Dont give up. Dont let go. Hold on a little longer. Life is worth living. You have a purpose in this world. I came that you may have and enjoy life and have it in abundance until it overflows. John I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark Scared Pray.Over thinking Pray.Losing hope Pray.Worried Pray.Struggling Pray.Pray and Trust in God. Please Retweet. As a dog goes back to its vomit so a fool repeats his stupidity. Proverbs RT InspireUs Younique whats wrong with that Get this shirt for the introvert in your crew. gt Freely you have received freely give. Matthew One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts Dont fear for Im w u dont be dismayed for Im ur God. Ill strengthen u amp help u Ill uphold u w my righteous right hand Isa RT FaithReeI What This Mom Says About Her Down Syndrome Baby Brought Us To Tears. clickgtgt Come unto me ye who are weary and overburdened and I will give you rest. Matthew The entire law is summed up in a single command Love your neighbor as yourself. Galatians RT TheGospels Words to LIVE by. Visit gt to signup for our daily inspirational emails. Teach them to do everything I have commanded you. And remember that I am always with you until the end of time. Matthew RT JesusGraces Follow Gods lead. He will never direct you wrong. For the grace of God has appeared bringing salvation to all men Titus Submit yourselves then to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Like a flood His mercy rains. RT FaithReeI Shelter Workers Followed Crying Sounds amp What They Found Is Heart Melting AWW clickgtgt By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John RT JarridWilson Religion wants to see your report card and attendance record but Jesus wants to see your heart. Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . In all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your paths straight. Proverbs RT QuoteSoup Put. GOD. st. gt God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power amp of love amp of sound mind. Tim RT llovebeingmom I need to get a poster of this one. Humble yourselves therefore under Gods mighty hand that he may lift you up in due time. Peter But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Gal Praise to our God who grants us peace amp rest in Jesus Christ. I spread out my hands to you my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Psalm Take delight in the LORD and he will give you the desires of your heart. Psalms A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye Cute Baby Panda Tries To Get Out Of Nap Time. Clickgtgt Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm And my God will supply all your needs according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians Little trials without God will break you. Big trials with God will make you. May you always find strength in Gods love and faithfulness. Love and value yourself. You are Gods creation and He paid a dear price for you to be alive today. You dont need to know what tomorrow holds. All you need to know is the One who holds tomorrow. When you focus on Gods promises instead of the problems youll notice your thoughts will be healthier and filled with peace. RT llovmydog Can I be your date Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat RT AthIetesForGod Place your desires before God. Pray about them and trust God to give them to you if and when theyre right for you. RT anthemofhope Hurting Depressed Need someone to talk to Our LiveChat is here for you. Its free and confidential. I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Phil Jesus answered It is written Man shall not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Matthew Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Proverbs Those who know your name trust you because you Lord dont abandon those who see you Psalm RT QuoteSoup Dream Big. Dream OFTEN. gt The eyes of the LORD are on those who fear him on those whose hope is in his unfailing love. Psalm RT FaithReeI Ultrasounds Show Baby Had No Heart Beat Dad Had One Last Request It Leaves Dr. Shocked Clickgtgt Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Matthew God is the ONLY one that can change someone. Leave it in his hands. RT TheGospels Words to live by PRAY. LOVE. FORGIVE. Visit gt to signup for our daily emails. Trials without God will break you. Trials with God will make you. You who hear prayer to you all men will come. Psalm RT ScriptureTruth The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil Satan is the curtain that attempts to separate us from God. Yank it down Praise God RT FaithReeI Little Boys Reaction To Being Taught Table Manners Is Precious Set your minds on things above not on earthly things. Colossians Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians A man of knowledge uses words with restraint and a man of understanding is eventempered. Proverbs With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm And now these three remain faith hope and love. But the greatest of these is love Corinthians Love is patientLove is kind Love is not jealousLove does not bragLove is not arrogant Every house is built by someone but God is the builder of everything. Hebrews Let us fix our eyes on Jesus the author amp perfecter of our faith who for the joy set before him endured the cross. Heb Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else. Thessalonians Jesus said to them I am the bread of life he who comes to Me will not hunger and he who believes in Me will never thirst. John Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see. Hebrews Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt RT llovmydog Looking good in red Adorable. I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Philippians Today forgive those that have hurt you amp forgive yourself so that you can walk in victory. RT ScriptureTruth And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. James Jesus said to her I am the resurrection amp the life. Anyone who believes in me will live even though they die John RT FaithReeI Gone Viral When Divers Rescued This Sea Turtle They Didnt Expect It To Do This clickgtgt ht Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . My dear brothers amp sisters take note of this Everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak amp slow to become angry. James For whatever a man sows that shall he also reap. Galatians RT TheGospels Begin the day with GOD. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Make a tree good and its fruit will be good. Matthew Do everything in love. Corinthians Judge your worth and value by what God says about you in His Word not by how somebody else treats you. Ephesians RT FaithReeI Cute Little Girl Battles Cancer And Shows Us What Mandisas Song Overcomer Really Means clickgtgt God give us a helper against the oppressor for human help is worthless Psalm For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph In his name the nations will put their hope Matthew For I will restore health to you amp your wounds I will heal. Jeremiah . RT amotherjoy Hi there When you hear that still small voice inside of you Thats God saying Be reasonable do it my way RT QuoteSoup Who says Movie Quotes cant make you BiLingual gt Worry increases pressure prayer releases peace. A quicktempered man does foolish things and a crafty man is hated. Proverbs God always has a relief for every sorrow and a plan for every tomorrow. Jesus replied What is impossible with men is possible with God. Luke RT TabithaKhaye A Bully Told This Year Old She Was Ugly Her Answer Is Awesome clickgtgt So then just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord continue to live your lives in him. Colossians We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John If you had faith even as small as a mustard seed you could say to this mountain Move from here to there amp it would move. Matthew And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deut RT FaithReeI Blind Autistic Boy Has Audience In Tears Then Laughter In Seconds. clickgtgt If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for Matthew Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matt A thousand times Ive failed still Your mercy remains. RT llovebeingmom The birth of a mother is a powerful thing. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you Peter RT WomenOfChrist They said Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved... Acts So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark RT anthemofhope in adults struggle with a mental illness. There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John But God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Romans Blessed are those who mourn for they will be comforted. Matthew Life is Gods novel. Let him write it. Isaac Bashevis Singer For it is by grace you have been saved through faithand this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph I believe in the sun even if it isnt shining. I believe in love even when I am alone. I believe in God even when He is silent. But I say to you who hear love your enemies do good to those who hate you Luke RT TheGospels For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world but that the world might be saved through Him. John When you have doubts and questions choose to say Lord I believe. I may not always understand but I trust you. I am with you always. Matthew . RT FaithReeI A Farmer Is Shocked When He Tapes Who Had Been Setting His Horses Free clickgtgt God understands our prayers even when we cant find the words to say them. Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. All Scripture is Godbreathed amp is useful for teaching rebuking correcting and training in righteousness. Tim You will turn back to me amp ask for help and I will answer your prayers. Jeremiah This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering amp sacrifice to God. Eph RT InspireUs Yes I am A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Proverbs You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm The righteousness of the upright delivers them but the unfaithful are trapped by evil desires Proverbs My soul is satisfied as with a rich feast. Psalms . Let us not become weary in doing good for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Galatians So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John Jesus gives you inner peace. That peace is radiated out. RT TabithaKhaye U.S. Marines Sing Days Of Elijah So Good Youll Want To Join In clickgtgt O LORD my God I called to you for help amp you healed me. Psalm Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matthew Dont brag about yourself let others praise you. Proverbs Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil For the LORD loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. Psalm RT WomenOfChrist Amen Some people talk about finding God as if He could get lost. RT InspireUs RT to share with your photographer friends. gt RT JarridWilson Religion restricts but Jesus releases. The kingdom of God is within you. Luke Always be in prayer for loved ones who have not accepted Christ as their savior Repent then amp turn to God so that your sins may be wiped out that times of refreshing may come from the Lord. Acts Give God your problems and allow Him to give you solutions. RT FaithReeI Worlds Tiniest Colt Lays In Front Of Mom Now Watch When It Gets Up. I Want One clickgtgt Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil So I say walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. Galatians RT TheGospels Have FAITH Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Mat RT GodlyLife O LORD my God I called to you for help amp you healed me. Psalm It is to a mans honor to avoid strife but every fool is quick to quarrel. Proverbs Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isa Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew RT TabithaKhaye Cute Flower Girl Schools Dad On How He Doesnt Understand Weddings clickgtgt I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians The world and its desires pass away but the man who does the will of God lives forever. John Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Mat And He said...your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT llovmycat Love is real Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Romans RT TheDaiIyPuppy Coffee amp Dog. gt Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Cor You sin God forgives.You worry Gods in control.Youre empty God restores.Youre alone God is with you. Everytime you forgive you disappoint the devil. As one whom his mother comforts so will I will comfort you. Isa Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Prov The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs So when you a mere human pass judgment on them amp yet do the same things do you think you will escape Gods judgment Romans Jesus Christ endured more than we can ever imagine just for the chance at a relationship with us. ForeverThankful RT JarridWilson God is in the business of using broken people for his glory. Its called grace. A quicktempered man does foolish things Prov RT amotherjoy Caption this photo. Start children off on the way they should go and even when they are old they will not turn from it. Proverbs For if you forgive others when they sin against you your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Matthew The Lord is a shield for all who take refuge in him Psalm He who covers his sins will not prosper but whoever confesses amp forsakes them will have mercy. Proverbs RT JesusGraces Great life Jesus Christ Jesus never said it would be easy but He said it would be worth it Matt Cast your burden upon the LORD and He will sustain you He will never allow the righteous to be shaken. Psalm RT FaithReeI Gone Viral Reba McEntires New Song Back To God Is So Good It Gave Us Chills. clickgtgt A righteous man cares for the needs of his animal but the kindest acts of the wicked are cruel. Proverbs The fear of the LORD teaches a man wisdom and humility comes before honor. Proverbs RT TheGospels Have you join our community yet Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Be strong and of good courage do not fear... for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. Deuteronomy . Jesus didnt die so we could have religion. He died so we could have a deep intimate personal relationship with God. RT GodlyLife Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. Save me from people of the world Psalm Exercise daily. Walk with the Lord RT FaithReeI Baby Penguin Is Looking For His Friend. When He Finds Him Its The Best clickgtgt Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. Matthew The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . RT QuoteSoup Who says Movie Quotes cant make you BiLingual gt You need to be moving if you want God to show you which way to go. He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa He who covers over an offense promotes love but whoever repeats the matter separates close friends. Proverbs RT llovmydog Angelic puppy face. Be a blessing to someone today. Proverbs Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph Honesty can keep you safe but if you cant be trusted you trap yourself. Proverbs Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Matthew Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew When you start focusing on a loving God whos given everything amp stop focusing on what seems to be going wrong you will see breakthrough. RT TabithaKhaye This Dancing Year Old Is So Amazing He Even Had Actor Jet Li Cheering For More. clickgtgt http There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John Get Gods plan before making your own plans. For everyone who asks receives those who seek find and to those who knock the door will be opened. Matthew My whole being is happy Psalm RT TabithaKhaye No matter how tough life gets never give up Honor your father and your mother so that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you. Exodus RT JarridWilson Dont get down on yourself because you messed up or made a mistake. Youve been forgiven. Move forward. Learn from your m I asked God for strength and God gave me difficulties to make me strong. Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters. Hebrews Never let anyone tell you that you cant do something because the Bible says you can do all things through him which strengthens you. We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Rom RT FaithReeI Cute Kids With Down Syndrome Ad Is Banned In France As It Could Disturb Consciences. Therefore if anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has gone the new has come Corinthians Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . If people cant see what God is doing they stumble over themselves when they attend to what he reveals they are most blessed Proverbs RT TheGospels Through HIM I can do anything. Visit gt and sign up for our daily emails. Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Corinthians RT AthIetesForGod Disappointments were not meant to destroy you. They were meant to strengthen you amp give you fortitude to accomplish you Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Matthew This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . RT FaithReeI A Yr Olds Dad Couldnt Breathe And Her Call Had Our Jaws Dropping Cast but a glance at riches amp they are gone for they will surely sprout wings amp fly off to the sky like an eagle. Proverbs Serve the Lord with fear amp rejoice with trembling. Psalm This is the day which the LORD has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm RT FamousWomen Ladies just for you... For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Rom God is able to provide you with every blessing in abundance. Corinthians . RT llovmycat Retweet if this kitty melted you with charm If we confess our sins he is faithful and righteous so he may forgive us for our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness John Nothing completely covered will remain covered and nothing hidden will remain unknown. Luke I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. Phil But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Prov The proverbs of Solomon A wise son brings joy to his father but a foolish son grief to his mother. Proverbs So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark I am with you always. Matthew . Jesus answered I am the way and the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John God gives different people different talents. Wherever He has you He has you there for a purpose. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm J E S U S I S M Y S A V I O U R Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Psalm I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians We brought nothing into the world nor can we take anything out of it Timothy When fear knocks on the door answer with faith The LORD is compassionate amp gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm RT FaithReeI This Puppy Was Hopelessly Encased In Tar Then Something Awesome happened click.gtgt So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John RT TheGospels Join our community by VISITING gt Sign up for our daily emails. Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter RT JarridWilson David conquered Goliath but not before he first learned how to slay bears and lions. God prepares his warriors. RT PrayInFaith Lord Youre more than enough for me. Hear my prayer God. Dont hide from my request. Pay attention to me and respond to me Psalm Godgiven struggles dont come to stay they come to pass. Just be patient. Wait while God works for you. RT FaithReeI Watch These Twin Babies Erupt Into Hysterical Laughter Itll Make Your Day clickgtgt I am with you always. Matthew . Have the courage to make the change the strength to see you through it and faith that everything will turn out for the best. I know that my redeemer lives and that in the end he will stand on the earth. Job O LORD my God I called to you for help and you healed me. Psalm And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT lnspireme I have yet to beginRT if this has EVER been YOU gt A mans pride shall bring him low but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. Proverbs Before they call I will answer while they are yet speaking I will hear. Isaiah . Jesus said Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest Matthew The wicked man earns deceptive wages but he who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward. Proverbs He who kneels before God can stand before anyone I also say to you that you are Peter and upon this rock I will build My church and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. Matt As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John RT FaithReeI Steps To Escaping A Car Sinking In Water Knowing This Could Save Your Life. clickgtgt Do not let your heart be troubled believe in God believe also in Me. John If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew Pray amp let God worry Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Psalm RT amotherjoy Double trouble Im a failure. Hes my forgiverIm a sinner. Hes my savior.Im broken. Hes my healer.Im His child. Hes my God. RT ArmorOGod Happiness is not based on your circumstances but on a decision you make. With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth no sacrifice for sins is left. Heb Words are like seeds. They have creative power. Isaiah says We will eat the fruit of our words. What seeds are you planting The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are Gods children. Romans RT FaithReeI Pray forgive yourself appreciate others do things you enjoy and remind yourself that you are loved. RT QuoteSoup Who says Movie Quotes cant make you BiLingual gt Smile things are working out. You may not see it now but just know God is directing you. Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew RT TheGospels Ecourage a loved one today. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt RT BookOProverbs Stop giving someone else the job of making you happy. The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Galatians RT anthemofhope You were made for a reason. Order my steps in thy word amp let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Psalm God has a perfect timing for everything. Learn to wait on Him. This brings Him honor and it brings you peace. see Psalm RT FaithReeI Adorable Yr Old Says Shes Not A Princess And Her Explanation Will Make Your Day clickgtgt Your actions speak so loud I cant hear your words Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isaiah I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Galatians Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you whom you have from God... Cor RT llovmycat Awww hes so tiny Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Chronicles LET JESUS TAKE THE WHEEL. I am a divine creation one of Gods masterpieces. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil amp he will flee from you James Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matt For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil cling to what is good. Romans Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew Be a blessing to someone today Prov And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love amp of sound mind. Timothy Teach me the way of life. Fill me with the joy of your presence Psalm RT EpicWomen He Plays Hallelujah On Crystal Glasses Of Water And It Sounds Heavenly clickgtgt RT SaintlyLife Jesus gives you inner peace. That peace is radiated out. I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John RT EpicWomen Cant get any better than these gt I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Revelation Taste and see that the LORD is good blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Psalm He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John RT FaithReeI Gone Viral Reba McEntires New Song Back To God Is So Good It Gave Us Chills. Clickgtgtgt Gods plan for your life gt Your plan for your life. What you do in front of people is nothing if you are not living the same life at home behind closed doors. Matthew RT TheGospels Begin the day with GOD. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts God has a wonderful way of turning negatives into positives. Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Cor Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . RT FaithReeI What This Mom Says About Her Down Syndrome Baby Brought Us To Tears clickgtgtgt If the world hates you keep in mind that it hated me first. John RT TabithaKhaye A Lost Newborn Deer Stumbles Into The Arms Of A Little Girl. What Happens Next Is Heartwarming clickgtgt I urge you brothers in view of Gods mercy to offer your bodies as living sacrifices holy and pleasing to God. Romans Life is not fair but God is always faithful. Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of His might. Ephesians Keep falsehood amp lies far from me give me neither poverty nor riches but give me only my daily bread. Proverbs But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Galatians O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Is Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Timothy Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians The LORD God said It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Genesis Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter God may not get us out of a situation but He will give us the strength to get through it. It is done unto you as you believe. Matthew The grass withers and the flowers fall but the word of our God stands forever. Isaiah Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matthew RT llovmycat Warning Cuteness Overload Light a fire on the inside. You have the seed of Almighty God. Dont allow something small to keep you from Gods best. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the sons of God. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John RT SportsHQ The Struggle is REAL gt I am the LORD that is my name I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. Isaiah The Lord my God lights my darkness Psalm RT TabithaKhaye Reporter Made The Mistake Of Filming In Front Of This Horses Stall Now Watch This clickgtgt https I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Prov RT FaithReeI Little Girls Trying To Give Parents The Cold Shoulder But Her Shoes Keep Her Laughing clickgtgt http Wrong doers eagerly listen to gossip liars pay close attention to slander. Proverbs Finally all of you live in harmony with one another be sympathetic love as brothers be compassionate and humble. Peter Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews RT TheGospels Words to LIVE by. Visit gt to signup for our daily inspirational emails. A good name is more desirable than great wealth. Respect is better than silver or gold. Proverbs RT JarridWilson Christianity that stands on street corners to condemn and point fingers isnt Christianity at all. RT GodlyLife Get Gods plan before making your own plans. I called Lord and I was saved from those who hate me Psalm Pleasant words are as a honeycomb sweet to the mind amp healing to the body. Proverbs RT FaithReeI After Giving Birth Mother German Shepherd Gets Showered With Affection By Dad. clickgtgt You shall call and the Lord will answer. Isaiah . Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Corinthians Everything can be done for a believer. Mark No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor Gods Laws are more desirable than gold yes more than much refined gold Psalm Do not brag about tomorrow because you do not know what another day may bring. Proverbs Wherever you are going God has already been there and paved the way for you. Matt Do not judge so that you will not be judged. Matthew But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness amp all these things will be given to you as well. Matt In his heart a man plans his course but the LORD determines his steps. Proverbs If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew RT TabithaKhaye Twin Babies Team Up And Attack Dad In The Cutest Way Clickgtgt The LORD is compassionate and gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm My salvation and my honor depend on God he is my mighty rock my refuge. Psalm You are the light of the world. Matthew . Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world but that the world might be saved through Him. John RT amotherjoy Caption this photo. Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest. Matthew We dont begin to know what freedom is until we come to a place in our lives where we have no need to impress anybody. God will help you overcome wrong motives and intentions if youll simply ask and receive help rather than trying to do it on your own. RT TheDaiIyPuppy Never Travel Alone. RT if you want this shirt. Get it here But I say to you love your enemies amp pray for those who persecute you. Matthew So if you think you are standing firm be careful that you dont fall Corinthians RT FaithReeI Little Boys Reaction To Being In A Toy Store Has Mom Reaching For Her Camera. Clickgtgt Good people bring out good things from the good stored in them. Matthew I seek you with all my heart do not let me stray from your commands. Psalm Jesus replied Very truly I tell you no one can see the kingdom of God without being born again. John RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt Create in me a clean heart O God and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Psalm Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Jame Delight yourself in the LORD and hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm RT FaithReeI Watch How The Baby Reacts When Mom amp Dad Start Singing. Adorable Clickgtgt Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Mat . If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Romans Teach me amp I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph God sees your pain. He will supply an opportunity. He will provide a way. Bigger and greater than before RT LifeLimits Spring is here and its about time Get this shirt here gt Seek ye first his kingdom and righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Matthew Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Heb Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh G O D I S G O O D Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world the love of the Father is not in him. John Say to wisdom You are my sister amp call understanding your intimate friend Proverbs Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. James God gt My fearsGod gt My insecuritiesGod gt My worryGod gt My everything For everything there is a season a time for every activity under heaven. Ecclesiastes Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ amp the love of God amp the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Cor RT TabithaKhaye You are priceless. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matt RT TheGospels Some people talk about finding God as if He could get lost. God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love and of sound mind. Tim RT LifeLimits Favorite words besides Whats for Dinner. Get it here gt God loves you because of who God is not because of anything you did or didnt do. Regina Brett RT GodlyLife Faith is true endurance Get your ENDURANCE bracelet from Elevated Faith. Theyre going quick gt h Greater love has no one than this that one lay down his life for his friends. John As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil RT FaithReeI Doctors Prep For Surgery On A Baby Then An MRI Shows Them God Has Other Plans Clickgtgt Some people are hurting so bad you have to do more than preach a message to them. You have to BE a message to them. For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John RT TheGospels Every Morning is a fresh start. gt Visit and sign up for our daily emails. Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matthew When God is all you have then all you have is all you need. And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Teach me and I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job RT FaithReeI Youll Be Shocked At Whats Done With The Soap From Hotels After You Leave clickgtgt God gt The World If you want to give the devil a nervous breakdown get up every day and be as happy as you can possibly be With men it is impossible but to God all things are possible. Matthew Lord Youre more than enough for me. Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm Love your neighbor as yourself. Mat Dont let this Book of the Law depart from your mouth meditate on it day and night. Joshua My connection to God allows me to create all the good in my live. The Lord lives Psalm Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs Dont be afraid be inspired. God gave us talents and He wants us to use them. Let your light shine forth before men that they may see your good works amp give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor The light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it. John When you are tempted he will provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Corinthians Every word of God is flawless he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Proverbs For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John If you love me keep my commands. John Do not let kindness amp truth leave you Bind them around your neck Write them on the tablet of your heart. Prov Mercy peace and love be yours in abundance. Jude May the God of hope fill you with all joy amp peace in believing. Romans . RT FaithReeI Baby Fennec Foxes Take Their First Bubble Bath. This Is A Cuteness Overload clickgtgt Its time to rise above those negative circumstances and believe what God says about you. You are blessed favored loved For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph RT TheGospels Have FAITH in HIM. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do do it all for the glory of God. Corinthians RT GodlyLife Save me from people of the world Psalm Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matt Jesus looked at them and said With man this is impossible but with God all things are possible. Matthew Nothing will be impossible to you. Mat RT FaithReeI Hes Telling His Best Friend Hes Donating His Kidney To Him. His Reaction Is Priceless clickgtgt ht Is anyone among you in trouble Let them pray. Is anyone happy Let them sing songs of praise. James Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John Take up the whole armor of God so you may be able to stand in the evil day Ephesians RT EpicWomen Yes They Sure DO gt A man of knowledge uses words with restraint amp a man of understanding is eventempered. Prov If anyone is in Christ there is a new creation. Corinthians RT amotherjoy Parents love are truly amazing In all your ways acknowledge him amp he will make your paths straight. Prov If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God God lives in him and he in God. John Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John Jesus Christ paid the ultimate price of dying for our sins so that we might gain the ultimate prize of a relationship with Him. RT TabithaKhaye Cute Baby Panda Tries To Get Out Of Nap Time. Aww clickgtgt Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh The Lord is an avenger Thessalonians For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John Selfishness is weakness. But loving and caring for others is a position of power beyond anything we can possibly imagine. Godloyal people living honest lives make it much easier for their children. Proverbs Too often we spend all of our time seeking God for answers to our problems when what we should be doing is just seeking God. RT DavidRoads Success is the sum of small efforts repeated day in and day out. Robert Collier Dont worry it never helps anything. Pray Trust God Let it go RT LovLikeJesus A positive attitude gives you power over your circumstances instead of your circumstances having power over you. LORD MAKE ME AN INSTRUMENT OF YOUR PEACE Where theres hate let me sow love Where theres injury pardon Where theres despair hope Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John RT JarridWilson Satisfaction is only found in a constant hunger for Gods Word. Then Jesus said Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God John RT EpicWomen Classy with a little. Get it here Ladies gt By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John How much better it is to get skillful amp Godly Wisdom than gold amp to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver. Proverbs RT FaithReeI This Dancing Year Old Is So Amazing He Even Had Actor Jet Li Cheering For More. clickgtgt If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians Let your light shine forth before men that they may see your good works amp give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew God is our refuge and strength a very present help in trouble. Psalms RT TheGospels Todays message was FOR YOU Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Surely God is my salvation I will trust amp not be afraid. Isa RT BibleTime I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Revelation Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . God loves us. We must not be afraid to love him. Pope Francis RT FaithReeI Dancers Appear To Float Along Like The Figurines On A Music Box. Amazing clickgtgt gt Some of Gods greatest gifts are unanswered prayers. Garth Brooks Want to find happiness in your life Appreciate the small stuff. You are blessed more than you realize. And He said... your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew Make up your mind that youre not going to quit until you see the fruit of what God has placed within you. RT DavidRoads Talent is God given. Be humble. Fame is mangiven. Be grateful. Conceit is selfgiven. Be careful. God has a more awesome plan for your life than you could ever imagine simply because He loves you RT LifeLimits Embrace earth. Get this shirt just in time for earth day .. gt GOD IS THE REASON WHY In pain I smile In confusion I understand. In betrayal I trust. In fear I push forward. God is the best part of my life. Without Him I cant imagine where Id be. Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matthew RT WomanDoItAll Youve Got To Hear What This Groom Says At The Altar. Must Watch clickgtgt For everyone who asks receives and he who seeks finds and to him who knocks it will be opened. Matthew God has never stopped being good weve just stop being grateful. People should always pray and not give up Luke You can decide to trust God or you can decide to be miserable. Decide today that you wont give up on your dreams and desires. Keep pressing forward believing that you are anointed and empowered. Jesus died for you knowing you might never love Him back. THAT is true love. I love you O LORD my strength. Psalm Despite their desires the lazy will come to ruin for their hands refuse to work. Proverbs RT llovmycat I wanna go outside. You have been saved as a favor through faith. This doesnt come from yourselves. Its Gods gift Ephesians GOD LOVES YOU He will be there for you. He will make a way for you. He will wipe away your tears. He will be your best friend. You will turn back to me amp ask for help amp I will answer your prayers Jer RT TheDaiIyPuppy You had me at WOOF. gt The path of lazy people is overgrown with briers the diligent walk down a smooth road. Proverbs God will never lead you wrong. Salvation is found in no one else for there is no other name given under heaven by which we must be saved. Acts God wants your st relationship to be with Him. Then one another then outreach to the world. Eph Trust the LORD amp his mighty power. Psalm RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt Pride goes before destruction a haughty spirit before a fall. Proverbs Hold your head up high and know God is in control he has a perfect plan for your life. Keep your mind going in the right direction and your life will catch up with it. RT FaithReeI This Toddler Was Decapitated Now After Miracle Surgery Hes Walking clickgtgt My command is this Love each other as I have loved you. John RT anthemofhope Hope is real. In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry amp do not give the devil a foothold. Eph Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it. Proverbs God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Rom Pride only breeds quarrels but wisdom is found in those who take advice. Proverbs The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . Never let loyalty and kindness leave you Tie them around your neck as a reminder. Write them deep within your heart. Proverbs For the Spirit God gave us does not make us timid but gives us power love and selfdiscipline. Timothy Praise the LORD O my soul all my inmost being praise his holy name. Psalm Praise God even when you dont understand what Hes doing. If you cant control what you think you will not be able to control what you do. Jesus Gives Hope. Frustration complication and misery are available in abundance but so is Gods grace. Walk boldly through the doors God opens for you and dont become discouraged when He closes one. When you take time with God and listen to His voice He renews your strength and enables you to handle life. For God alone my soul waits in silence. Psalm And nothing will be impossible for you. Matthew . RT motherknow LOL RT JarridWilson Just because someone speaks truth into your life that you dont like hearing doesnt mean that person is speaking negativ For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts RT BibleTime God is the best part of my life. Without Him I cant imagine where Id be. God u all u need RT FaithReeI Grandma Teaching Adorable Wk Old Baby Sign Language Aww Must see Clickgtgt RT QuoteSoup Dream Big. Dream OFTEN. gt One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts I am a Christian. That does not mean I am perfect. Just forgiven. God has a bright future in store for you Keep standing Keep believing Keep hoping Be on your guard stand firm in the faith be men of courage be strong. Corinthians Create in me a clean heart O God. Psalm . Love is not a feeling we have its a decision to treat people the way Jesus would treat them. In God we will be strong Psalm RT FwJesus Dont mourn bad decisions overcome them with good ones. I pray to you my protector. Psalm A friend loves at all times amp a brother is born for adversity. Prov You will be secure because there is hope you will look about you amp take your rest in safety. Job Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Humility and the fear of the LORD bring wealth and honor and life. Proverbs Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil Every word of God is pure He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Proverbs RT amotherjoy So innocent And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Romans Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John God is spirit and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth. John The God who made the world amp everything in it is the Lord of heaven amp earth amp does not live in temples built by hands. Acts Disappointments were not meant to destroy you. They were meant to strengthen you amp give you fortitude to accomplish your Godgiven destiny. Never underestimate the power of a prayer. One small prayer can change your life dramatically. Dont worry if youre single. God is looking at you right now saying Im saving this one for someone special What God intended for you goes far beyond anything you can imagine. Never lose hope and hang on to Gods hand. Always keep your head up because if its down you wont be able to see the blessings that have been placed in your life. I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark Many books can INFORM you but the Bible can TRANSFORM you. If you do good to those who are good to you what credit is that to you Even sinners do that. Luke RT BibleTime Jesus answered I am the way and the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John It is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . Happiness is not based on your circumstances but on a decision you make. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke days without prayer makes one weak Trust the LORD amp his mighty power. Psalm Trust in Him Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Hebrews RT TheGospels Looking for more Visit gt Let go of the disappointments and setbacks in your life and hang on to the promises of God for your future. RT TheGospels So then just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord continue to live your lives in him. Colossians Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Tim It is you who made the heavens and the earth by your great power. Nothing is too hard for you. Jeremiah Each person you meet is Jesus in disguise. Mother Teresa Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter The Lord is at my right hand so that I wont be shaken Acts I tell you not to worry about your life. Matthew But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm Delight yourself in the LORD amp hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm In your relationships with one another have the same attitude of mind Christ Jesus had Philippians God remains in us and his love in us is made complete. John I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. Romans Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat When I think of all the stuff Ive been through I have confidence I can get through this. I trust that God will take care of me. With God all things are possible. Matthew Jesus answered I am the way amp the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John Respect those who caution you Thessalonians I fall asleep in peace the moment I lie down because you alone O LORD enable me to live securely. Psalm . Before his downfall a mans heart is proud but humility comes before honor. Proverbs He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa RT motherknow True. Never lose faith. God loves you too much to let you down. RT daiIyscripture Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter . Unless you change and become like little children you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Matthew Great peace have those who love your law nothing can make them stumble. Psalm . RT QuoteSoup I have yet to beginRT if this has EVER been YOU gt God Is There Even When Youre At Your Lowest. Hes Working Things Out Even When You Dont Know It. The Lord will be a refuge for the oppressed a refuge for times of trouble Psalm RT FaithReeI You will turn back to me amp ask for help amp I will answer your prayers Jer The Lords word is pure Psalm . A positive attitude gives you power over your circumstances instead of your circumstances having power over you. RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm. Make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be holy without holiness no one will see the Lord. Hebrews RT LovLikeJesus Availability is better than ability for God. Wishing will NEVER be a substitute for prayer. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ the Father of compassion amp the God of all comfort. Cor RT FaithReeI Remaining calm in adversity is a sign of great spiritual strength. No matter whats going on in your life right now Hold y If we say that we have no sin we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. John Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew Happy moments Praise GodDifficult moments Seek GodQuiet moments Worship GodDifficult moments Trust GodEvery moment Thank God RT motherknow So funny love this. Satan seeks to defeat you by tempting you to trust your own wisdom to live according to ur selfcentered feelings and to gratify your flesh Jesus said to him I am the way and the truth and the life no one comes to the Father but through Me. John Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind amp with all your strength. Mark God not only sees where you are He sees where you can be. Trusting God is more than what you can see. Walk by FAITH not by sight. Without love we dont feel anything.Without dreams we dont accomplish anything.Without God we arent anything. As churning the milk produces butter and as twisting the nose produces blood so stirring up anger produces strife. Proverbs God is our refuge and strength a very present help in trouble. Psalms Satan seeks to defeat you by tempting you to trust your own wisdom. TRUST IN GOD. You are a child of God. Youre playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking. I put on the Full Armor of God Ephesians Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. This is the first amp greatest commandment. Matt Be on your guard stand firm in the faith be men of courage be strong. Cor RT FwJesus What a great shirt in time for Easter. gt RT BookOProverbs The goodhearted understand what its like to be poor the hardhearted havent the faintest idea. Proverbs What is desired in a man is kindness amp a poor man is better than a liar. Proverbs If ye love me keep my commandments. John The tongue has the power of life and death and those who love it will eat its fruit. Proverbs The thief comes only to steal amp kill amp destroy I have come that they may have life amp have it to the full. John You may have weaknesses but God has strength. You may have sin but God has grace. You may fail but God remains faithful I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess Draw near to God and He will draw near to you James RT TheGospels Become a member of our email community. Visit gt to signup For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this is not from yourselves it is the gift of God Ephesians RT TheGospels Peace comes when you pray. Love is patient love is kind and is not jealous love does not brag and is not arrogant Corinthians Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer amp petition w thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer Selfrestraint amp gentle speech are effective against stubborn opposition. Dont procrastinate theres no time to lose. Proverbs When you are tempted he will provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Cor RT JesusGraces He is risen. Get yours here gt He who believes in the Son has eternal life but he who does not obey the Son will not see life but the wrath of God abides on him. Jn RT motherknow Do you agree You ask in prayer but dont receive it because you ask wrongly wanting to squander it on pleasure James It was for freedom that Christ set us free therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. Galatians Gods will is not an itinerary but an attitude. Andrew Dhuse If you can believe all things are possible to him who believeth. Mark Some say God loves us if we change. The Gospel says Gods love CHANGES us. I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Those who mock the poor insult their Maker those who rejoice at the misfortune of others will be punished. Proverbs He who conceals his hatred has lying lips and whoever spreads slander is a fool. Proverbs Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . A man can no more diminish Gods glory by refusing worship him than a lunatic can put out the sun by scribbling the word darkness I cant believe that God put us on this earth to be ordinary. Lou Holtz He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John RT llovmycat Roar More like a Meow Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. John RT GodLoved Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Prov Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs Pray that we may be given a hunger amp burning desire to fellowship more closely with Jesus RT EpicWomen SHOP EARLY amp show MOM you think shes a CLASSY LADY Makes a great MOTHERS DAY GIFT. Clickgtgt https I love you O LORD my strength. Psalm RT LifeLimits Cant get any better than these gt Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Romans If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us ur sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John And the crooked shall be made straight amp the rough ways shall be made smooth. Luke . If you love Me you will keep My commandments. John RT TheGospels Want to be a part of our community Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Prov We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him who have been called according to his purpose. Romans RT LovLikeJesus Check out this beauty Top Seller Limited time offer amp Availability gt Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to words of knowledge. Proverbs Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Prov Jesus Christ was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Romans RT LifeLimits Younique whats wrong with that Get this shirt for the introvert in your crew. gt They said Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved... Acts No one has ever seen God but if we love one another God lives in us and his love is made complete in us. John The righteousness that comes from God amp is by faith. Phil RT TabithaKhaye A daughter is one of the most BEAUTIFUL gifts this world has to give. Laurel Atherton Pray for those who threaten you. Luke Youre not a failure until you stop trying. If you have no other testimony you have this one Im still here. Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again Rejoice Philippians One of the best gifts we can give ourselves is time alone with God. Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Matthew In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry amp do not give the devil a foothold. Eph If we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. John Look I am coming soon My reward is with me and I will give to everyone according to what they have done. Revelation I know that God will give you whatever you ask of him. John .. Love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. Deuteronomy If you love me obey my commandments. John A mans own folly ruins his life yet his heart rages against the LORD. Proverbs RT llovmydog What did you say But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew RT daiIyscripture Thank you Lord. My soul finds rest in God alone my salvation comes from him. Psalm RT JarridWilson The same sin that nailed Jesus to the cross is the very sin he willingly put himself on the cross to forgive. GoodFriday Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Romans RT GodLoved HE will GUIDE YOU Available for sizes Sx amp styles. gt The thief comes only to steal amp kill amp destroy I have come that they may have life amp have it to the full. John Friends come and go but Jesus comes and stays. Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves ensure justice for those being crushed. Proverbs Surely God is my salvation I will trust and not be afraid. Isaiah The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Gal RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt By wisdom a house is built amp through understanding it is established Proverbs Greater love has no one than this to lay down ones life for ones friends. John He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Prov Never let peoples negative thoughts about you hinder you from accomplishing what God put in your heart. Dare to dream and dare to live it. You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm Theres no fear in love. Instead complete love drives out fear John RT JesusGraces Do you Available in styles and sizes SX. gt Grace is God doing for us what we could never do and what we will never deserve. RT llovmydog A pile of puppies I am with you always Matthew We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him who have been called according to his purpose. Rom I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is amp who was amp who is to come the Almighty. Revelation Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John RT TabithaKhaye Funny Toddler Thinks Hes Lost His Fork amp Has His Family Bursting Into Laughter Clickgtgt https Praise the God amp Father of our Lord Jesus Christ He is the Father who is compassionate and the God who gives comfort. Corinthians Many are the woes of the wicked but the LORDs unfailing love surrounds the man who trusts in him. Psalm You cant change what has already happened so choose to look ahead instead of behind you. Submit therefore to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Be transformed by the renewing of your minds so that you may discern what is good amp acceptable amp perfect. Rom . We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Romans Do not seek the world.Seek PeaceSeek TruthSeek LoveSeek Christ RT amotherjoy Do you think Im cute For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John RT TabithaKhaye This T Shirt Is For The Classy Smart amp Sassy Women Out There. Clickgtgt RT AmazingiGrace Prove yourself to yourself not others. Be transformed by the renewing of your minds so that you may discern what is good amp acceptable amp perfect. Rom Im a Christian. Im not perfect. Just because I mess up sometimes doesnt mean Im fake. Theres no such thing as a perfect Christian. Sometimes I just sit back and realize how blessed I am. God is great. I have amazing people in my life. I shouldnt complain. Praise Him RT adamweber As human beings our natural default is to be selfish. Lord help us to focus on you and others. I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Gal God never leads us where He cannot keep us. His grace is always sufficient for us in any and every circumstance of life. RT FaithReeI Cute Baby Panda Tries To Get Out Of Nap Time Clickgtgt Not only so but we also glory in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces perseverance. Romans If we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. John RT TheGospels God has a message for YOU. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. He holds victory in store for the upright he is a shield to those whose walk is blameless. Proverbs A new commandment I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you that you also love one another. John RT PrayInFaith Amen The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil If your enemy is hungry give him food to eat if he is thirsty give him water to drink. Proverbs We know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John One who trusts in the Lord is secure. Proverbs . Make decisions based on what you know rather than what you feel. Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs . And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy RT llovebeingmom So cute RT QuoteSoup Summer time is here Bring on the bonfires camping smores. gt If we live by the Spirit let us also be guided by the Spirit. Gala . A wise man is full of strength and a man of knowledge enhances his might. Proverbs When life is tough PRAY. When life is great PRAY. The Spirit gives life the flesh counts for nothing. The words I have spoken to you they are full of the Spirit amp life. John Truly I tell you whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers amp sisters of mine you did for me. Matthew You never really know yourself until you see yourself under pressure. RT WomenOfHistory What This Year Old Woman Does At The End Of This Dance Drives The Audience Crazy Clickgtgtgthttps Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Isaiah God has a blessing with your name on it. If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has passed away behold the new has come. Corinthians For I know the plans I have for you declares the LORD plans to prosper u amp not to harm you plans to give you hope amp a future. Jer RT llovmydog Who wants a cuddle with him I sought the Lord amp He answered me amp delivered me from all my fears. Look to Him amp be radiant. Psalm Let us always meet each other with a smile for the smile is the beginning of love. Mother Teresa RT TheGospels But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Gal Commit to the LORD whatever you do amp your plans will succeed. Proverbs The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own but the Father who dwells in me does his works. John . RT EpicWomen Yes They Sure DO gt Protect me God when I take refuge in you Psalm RT TabithaKhaye When This Dad Gets Taken Hostage By His Baby The Results Are Hilarious. Clickgtgt RT JarridWilson Why Christians should stop saying Everything happens for a reason. Whatever God calls you to do He equips you to do as well. RT FaithReeI Gone Viral This Mum amp Day Old Baby Sea Otter Cuddling Are A Cuteness Overload Clickgtgt I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm And He told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray amp not lose heart. Luke RT TheGospels Secure your SUBSCRIPTION. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Everyone will know that you are my disciples because of your love for each other. John RT PrayInFaith Some say God loves us if we change. The Gospel says Gods love CHANGES us. Get rid of your of worries. Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you. Peter When you pray dont give God instructions... Just report for duty RT FaithReeI DNA Test Result On Her Baby Has Mom Speechless amp Collapsed On The Floor Clickgtgt Every setback is a setup for a comeback. God wants to bring you out better than you were before. Love each other as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life he who believes in Me will live even if he dies John If we confess our sins he is faithful amp just amp will forgive us our sins amp purify us from all unrighteousness. John If you want to know where youll be in yrs listen to what you talk about most now. Your tongue is a rudder James I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Proverbs Patience is not the ability to wait but how you act while youre waiting. In the same way faith by itself if it is not accompanied by action is dead. James Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Proverbs If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Rom Honor your father and mother so you may prosper and be a long time on the earth Ephesians Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew You are where God wants you to be at this very moment. Every experience is part of His divine plan. What we are is Gods gift to us. What we become is our gift to God. Eleanor Powell Commit to the LORD whatever you do and your plans will succeed. Proverbs . I sought the LORD and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Psalm Jesus said that before the Second Coming If anyone tells you Look here is Christ... dont believe it Mark RT llovmycat Aww Retweet if your cat has ever done this. This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . God never promises the absence of storms. He just promises to walk with us through them. If you love me obey my commandments.John RT EpicWomen It doesnt get any better than CLASSY SASSY and SMART gt Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom Love each other as I have loved u. Greater love has no one than this that he lay down his life for his friends. John LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD with all your heart with all your soul with all your strength RT FaithReeI Gone Viral Reba McEntires New Song Back To God Is So Good It Gave Us Chills. clickgtgt God knows us better than anyone else and thats why no one can love us like He does. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart all your soul amp all your mind. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Matt . RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt God never tells us to do anything without giving us the ability to do it. see Philippians RT GodLoved Be a blessing to someone today Prov I dont care if you are following me follow Him. Peace comes when you pray. RT FaithReeI lol Dads Trying To Teach His Son Instead His Son Is Having Fun With Him clickgtgt We know that Jesus really is the Savior of the world. John RT JarridWilson If you learn to surrender God will speak a mighty word into your life. Doing what is right amp fair pleases the Lord more than an offering. Proverbs In his name the nations will put their hope. Matthew But even when I am afraid I keep on trusting you. Psalm Nobody is in charge of your happiness except you. I came that you may have and enjoy life and have it in abundance until it overflows. John I have faith that God is living out a divine plan through me. Have faith in God. Mark Scared Pray.Over thinking Pray.Losing hope Pray.Worried Pray.Struggling Pray.Pray and Trust in God. Please Retweet. As a dog goes back to its vomit so a fool repeats his stupidity. Proverbs Freely you have received freely give. Matthew One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Do not be afraid keep on speaking do not be silent. Acts RT TabithaKhaye Gone Viral Adorable Fun Things Happen When He Lays Beside His Shi Itzu Puppy. clickgtgt Dont fear for Im w u dont be dismayed for Im ur God. Ill strengthen u amp help u Ill uphold u w my righteous right hand Isa Come unto me ye who are weary and overburdened and I will give you rest. Matthew The entire law is summed up in a single command Love your neighbor as yourself. Galatians Teach them to do everything I have commanded you. And remember that I am always with you until the end of time. Matthew For the grace of God has appeared bringing salvation to all men Titus Submit yourselves then to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. James Like a flood His mercy rains. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. John Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . RT FwJesus A SOUL full of HOPE .. gt In all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your paths straight. Proverbs God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power amp of love amp of sound mind. Tim Humble yourselves therefore under Gods mighty hand that he may lift you up in due time. Peter RT FaithReeI Baby Koala Lovingly Clings To Mumamp Wont Leave Her While She Has Surgery. clickgtgt But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Gal Praise to our God who grants us peace amp rest in Jesus Christ. RT TheGospels Who are you grateful for Visit gt amp subscribe to our daily emails. I spread out my hands to you my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Psalm RT SaintlyLife Instead of dwelling on your difficulties focus more on the fact that God is for you and His power is at work in you. Take delight in the LORD and he will give you the desires of your heart. Psalms A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. Proverbs RT TabithaKhaye Cute Little Girls Reaction To Touching A Horse For The st Time Has Parents Losing It clickgtgt h Be strong amp take heart all you who hope in the LORD. Psalm RT FaithReeI Let us always meet each other with a smile for the smile is the beginning of love. Mother Teresa And my God will supply all your needs according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians RT JarridWilson David conquered Goliath but not before he first learned how to slay bears and lions. God prepares his warriors. Little trials without God will break you. Big trials with God will make you. May you always find strength in Gods love and faithfulness. Love and value yourself. You are Gods creation and He paid a dear price for you to be alive today. You dont need to know what tomorrow holds. All you need to know is the One who holds tomorrow. RT amotherjoy I feel like flying When you focus on Gods promises instead of the problems youll notice your thoughts will be healthier and filled with peace. Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Mat I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Phil Jesus answered It is written Man shall not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Matthew Trust in the LORD with all your heart amp lean not on your own understanding. Proverbs Those who know your name trust you because you Lord dont abandon those who see you Psalm The eyes of the LORD are on those who fear him on those whose hope is in his unfailing love. Psalm Jesus said For mortals it is impossible but for God all things are possible. Matthew God is the ONLY one that can change someone. Leave it in his hands. Trials without God will break you. Trials with God will make you. You who hear prayer to you all men will come. Psalm The peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts amp your minds in Christ Jesus. Phil RT amotherjoy Sssshhhh Im going to sleep now Satan is the curtain that attempts to separate us from God. Yank it down Praise God RT BibleTime He who kneels before God can stand before anyone Set your minds on things above not on earthly things. Colossians Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians A man of knowledge uses words with restraint and a man of understanding is eventempered. Proverbs RT BookOProverbs Words to live by. With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm And now these three remain faith hope and love. But the greatest of these is love Corinthians RT FaithReeI Doctors Prep For Surgery On A Baby Then An MRI Shows Them God Has Other Plans Clickgtgt Love is patientLove is kind Love is not jealousLove does not bragLove is not arrogant RT TheGospels Mirror HIS image. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Every house is built by someone but God is the builder of everything. Hebrews Let us fix our eyes on Jesus the author amp perfecter of our faith who for the joy set before him endured the cross. Heb RT ArmorOGod Never lose faith. God loves you too much to let you down. Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else. Thessalonians Jesus said to them I am the bread of life he who comes to Me will not hunger and he who believes in Me will never thirst. John RT FaithReeI Moms Heartwarming Story Shows The Joy Her Down Syndrome Baby Has Brought Her. Clickgtgt. Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see. Hebrews Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt RT AmazedByAnimals Pet HAIR EVERYWHERE. gt I can do all things in him who strengthens me. Philippians Today forgive those that have hurt you amp forgive yourself so that you can walk in victory. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. James Jesus said to her I am the resurrection amp the life. Anyone who believes in me will live even though they die John Fear not... for it is your Fathers good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke . My dear brothers amp sisters take note of this Everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak amp slow to become angry. James For whatever a man sows that shall he also reap. Galatians Make a tree good and its fruit will be good. Matthew Do everything in love. Corinthians RT TabithaKhaye Twin Babies Caught On MRI Scan Fighting In Their Mothers Womb Amazing clickgtgt Judge your worth and value by what God says about you in His Word not by how somebody else treats you. Ephesians God give us a helper against the oppressor for human help is worthless Psalm RT ScriptureTruth For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph For it is by grace you have been saved through faith and this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph RT JarridWilson Gods love satisfies fulfills comforts embraces encourages provides and redeems. In his name the nations will put their hope Matthew RT QuoteSoup Who says Movie Quotes cant make you BiLingual gt For I will restore health to you amp your wounds I will heal. Jeremiah . When you hear that still small voice inside of you Thats God saying Be reasonable do it my way Worry increases pressure prayer releases peace. A quicktempered man does foolish things and a crafty man is hated. Proverbs RT TheGospels When all else fails GOD is HERE for YOU. gt Visit amp signup for our daily emails. God always has a relief for every sorrow and a plan for every tomorrow. RT AmazingiGrace When you say yes to others make sure you are not saying no to yourself. Jesus replied What is impossible with men is possible with God. Luke So then just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord continue to live your lives in him. Colossians RT FaithReeI Great Dane Helps Little Girl With Disabilities In A Way Nobody Else Could clickgtgt We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John If you had faith even as small as a mustard seed you could say to this mountain Move from here to there amp it would move. Matthew And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deut If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for Matthew Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matt RT motherknow Great thougth A thousand times Ive failed still Your mercy remains. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you Peter So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John But God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Romans Blessed are those who mourn for they will be comforted. Matthew Life is Gods novel. Let him write it. Isaac Bashevis Singer For it is by grace you have been saved through faithand this not from yourselves it is the gift of God. Eph I believe in the sun even if it isnt shining. I believe in love even when I am alone. I believe in God even when He is silent. But I say to you who hear love your enemies do good to those who hate you Luke When you have doubts and questions choose to say Lord I believe. I may not always understand but I trust you. I am with you always. Matthew . RT amotherjoy So sweet God understands our prayers even when we cant find the words to say them. RT BibleTime I seek you with all my heart do not let me stray from your commands. Psalm Christian Yeah.Perfect Nope.Forgiven Yeah.Worthy Nope.Accepted Yeah.Deserving Nope.Loved Yeah. All Scripture is Godbreathed amp is useful for teaching rebuking correcting and training in righteousness. Tim RT TabithaKhaye Gone Viral This Baby Waking Up Is So Sweet And Funny It Will Make Your Day Clickgtgt You will turn back to me amp ask for help and I will answer your prayers. Jeremiah This is the day that the Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm . RT FaithReeI Dads Trying To Teach His Son Instead His Son Is Having Fun With Him Clickgtgt Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering amp sacrifice to God. Eph A patient man has great understanding but a quicktempered man displays folly. Proverbs You are wonderful LORD amp you deserve all praise because you are much greater than anyone can understand. Psalm RT TheGospels Every Morning is a fresh start. gt Visit and sign up for our daily emails. The righteousness of the upright delivers them but the unfaithful are trapped by evil desires Proverbs RT FaithReeI Faith changes everything. It changes your outlook and it changes your life. My soul is satisfied as with a rich feast. Psalms . Let us not become weary in doing good for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Galatians RT FaithReeI This Drummed Version Of How Great Thou Art Is So Cool Must See Clickgtgt So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John Jesus gives you inner peace. That peace is radiated out. O LORD my God I called to you for help amp you healed me. Psalm Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matthew Dont brag about yourself let others praise you. Proverbs RT llovmydog This couch is all mine. Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your requests God. Phil For the LORD loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. Psalm Some people talk about finding God as if He could get lost. RT LifeLimits Can you find a better morning combination The kingdom of God is within you. Luke Always be in prayer for loved ones who have not accepted Christ as their savior Repent then amp turn to God so that your sins may be wiped out that times of refreshing may come from the Lord. Acts Give God your problems and allow Him to give you solutions. Whatever is true whatever is noble right pure lovely admirable excellent or praiseworthy think of such things. Phil So I say walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. Galatians Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp w all your mind. This is the st amp greatest commandment. Mat It is to a mans honor to avoid strife but every fool is quick to quarrel. Proverbs Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isa RT motherknow I am happy. Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew RT GodlyLife This is so good. I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians The world and its desires pass away but the man who does the will of God lives forever. John Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Mat RT lnspiredLife Weird. NO. Just ME. RT if this is your stance. gt And He said...your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Its time to stop running away from things that are uncomfortable and hard. Its time to confront issues in your life. RT FaithReeI Service Dog Helps Boy Suffering With Brain Injury In An Awesome Way God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners Christ died for us. Romans Be content with what you have because God has said Never will I leave you never will I forsake you. Hebrews RT TheGospels Have FAITH in HIM. Visit gt amp sign up for our daily emails. Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Cor RT JesusGraces God changes the hearts of people. Prayer changes the heart of God. You sin God forgives.You worry Gods in control.Youre empty God restores.Youre alone God is with you. RT TabithaKhaye Gone Viral Reba McEntires New Song Back To God Is So Good It Gave Us Chills. Clickgtgt https Everytime you forgive you disappoint the devil. As one whom his mother comforts so will I will comfort you. Isa RT FaithReeI See Why This Man Was Featured On E ESPN. His Story Is Truly Incredible Hatred stirs up dissension but love covers over all wrongs. Prov The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs So when you a mere human pass judgment on them amp yet do the same things do you think you will escape Gods judgment Romans Jesus Christ endured more than we can ever imagine just for the chance at a relationship with us. ForeverThankful A quicktempered man does foolish things Prov Start children off on the way they should go and even when they are old they will not turn from it. Proverbs For if you forgive others when they sin against you your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Matthew The Lord is a shield for all who take refuge in him Psalm He who covers his sins will not prosper but whoever confesses amp forsakes them will have mercy. Proverbs Jesus never said it would be easy but He said it would be worth it Matt Cast your burden upon the LORD and He will sustain you He will never allow the righteous to be shaken. Psalm A righteous man cares for the needs of his animal but the kindest acts of the wicked are cruel. Proverbs The fear of the LORD teaches a man wisdom and humility comes before honor. Proverbs Be strong and of good courage do not fear... for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. Deuteronomy . Jesus didnt die so we could have religion. He died so we could have a deep intimate personal relationship with God. Save me from people of the world Psalm RT llovmydog OMG cuties picture ever. Exercise daily. Walk with the Lord RT TabithaKhaye Gone Viral Tiny Premature Twins Just Want To Hold Each Others Hands. Dad Is Stunned clickgtgt http RT PrayInFaith Live for Him for He died for us. Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. Matthew The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love O Lord endures forever. Psalm . RT EpicWomen From the Bottom to the Top YOU are PERFECT gt You need to be moving if you want God to show you which way to go. He was crushed for our iniquities the punishment that brought us peace was upon him amp by his wounds we are healed. Isa He who covers over an offense promotes love but whoever repeats the matter separates close friends. Proverbs RT FaithReeI Each person you meet is Jesus in disguise. Mother Teresa Be a blessing to someone today. Proverbs Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Speak well of those who curse you. Luke RT TheGospels Is todays MESSAGE for YOU Visit gt to signup for our daily inspirational emails. For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph Honesty can keep you safe but if you cant be trusted you trap yourself. Proverbs Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Matthew Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew RT FaithReeI Worlds Tallest Horse Is A Playful Giant amp He Had Our Jaws Dropping Clickgtgt When you start focusing on a loving God whos given everything amp stop focusing on what seems to be going wrong you will see breakthrough. There is no fear in love but perfect love casteth out fear. John Get Gods plan before making your own plans. For everyone who asks receives those who seek find and to those who knock the door will be opened. Matthew My whole being is happy Psalm Honor your father and your mother so that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you. Exodus I asked God for strength and God gave me difficulties to make me strong. Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters. Hebrews Never let anyone tell you that you cant do something because the Bible says you can do all things through him which strengthens you. We know that all things work together for good for those who love God. Rom Therefore if anyone is in Christ he is a new creation the old has gone the new has come Corinthians Knock amp the door will be opened. Luke . If people cant see what God is doing they stumble over themselves when they attend to what he reveals they are most blessed Proverbs Gods temple is holy amp you are that temple. Corinthians RT TabithaKhaye He Plays Hallelujah On Crystal Glasses Of Water And It Sounds Heavenly clickgtgt Whatever you ask for in prayer with faith you will receive. Matthew RT motherknow I agree This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . Cast but a glance at riches amp they are gone for they will surely sprout wings amp fly off to the sky like an eagle. Proverbs RT QuoteSoup Who says Movie Quotes cant make you BiLingual gt Serve the Lord with fear amp rejoice with trembling. Psalm This is the day which the LORD has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. Psalm For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Rom God is able to provide you with every blessing in abundance. Corinthians . RT FaithReeI Blind Girl With Autism Sings Like Whitney Houston amp Shes So Good We Got Goosebumps If we confess our sins he is faithful and righteous so he may forgive us for our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness John Nothing completely covered will remain covered and nothing hidden will remain unknown. Luke I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil RT TheGospels Looking for some INSPIRATION Visit gt and sign up for our daily emails. Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. Phil RT LovLikeJesus Forgiving your enemies doesnt help them it helps you. But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well. Matthew As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Prov RT TabithaKhaye Gone Viral Year Old Girl Break Dancer Has Crowd On Their Feet In Disbelief Shes Amazing clickgtgt RT FaithReeI Men Working On The Christ The Redeemer Statue Had Our Jaws Dropping Clickgtgt The proverbs of Solomon A wise son brings joy to his father but a foolish son grief to his mother. Proverbs So I tell you whatever you ask for in prayer believe that you have received it amp it will be yours. Mark I am with you always. Matthew . Jesus answered I am the way and the truth amp the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John God gives different people different talents. Wherever He has you He has you there for a purpose. RT lnspiredLife Bring out the Schwinn. Available in styles colors and Sizes SX gt Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Psalm J E S U S I S M Y S A V I O U R Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Psalm I can do all this through him who gives me strength. Philippians We brought nothing into the world nor can we take anything out of it Timothy When fear knocks on the door answer with faith The LORD is compassionate amp gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm So if the son sets you free you will be free indeed. John We know amp rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God amp God in him. John Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter RT JarridWilson If youre hurting and need someone to talk to tonight weve got you covered. Check the anthemofhope LIVE chat Hear my prayer God. Dont hide from my request. Pay attention to me and respond to me Psalm Godgiven struggles dont come to stay they come to pass. Just be patient. Wait while God works for you. RT llovmydog Sleep little guy. I am with you always. Matthew . RT BookOProverbs A mans pride shall bring him low but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. Proverbs Have the courage to make the change the strength to see you through it and faith that everything will turn out for the best. RT WomenOfHistory I have yet to beginRT if this has EVER been YOU gt I know that my redeemer lives and that in the end he will stand on the earth. Job O LORD my God I called to you for help and you healed me. Psalm And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke RT FaithReeI This Dogs Reaction To Taking Her Medicine Had Us Rolling On The Floor Laughing. clickgtgt A mans pride shall bring him low but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. Proverbs Before they call I will answer while they are yet speaking I will hear. Isaiah . Jesus said Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest Matthew RT TheGospels Secure your SUBSCRIPTION. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. The wicked man earns deceptive wages but he who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward. Proverbs RT daiIyscripture He who kneels before God can stand before anyone RT JarridWilson God can take our brokenness our pain our trials and redeem them into something beautiful. I also say to you that you are Peter and upon this rock I will build My church and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. Matt RT FaithReeI Watch How The Baby Reacts When Momamp Dad Start Singing. Adorable clickgtgt As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John Do not let your heart be troubled believe in God believe also in Me. John If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew Pray amp let God worry Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Psalm RT JesusGraces I can do anything through CHRIST. gt Im a failure. Hes my forgiverIm a sinner. Hes my savior.Im broken. Hes my healer.Im His child. Hes my God. With all my heart I praise the LORD I will never forget how kind he has been. Psalm This is the day the Lord has made let us rejoice amp be glad in it. Psalm . If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth no sacrifice for sins is left. Heb Words are like seeds. They have creative power. Isaiah says We will eat the fruit of our words. What seeds are you planting The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are Gods children. Romans Smile things are working out. You may not see it now but just know God is directing you. Then Jesus came to them amp said All authority in heaven amp on earth has been given to me. Matthew Take my yoke upon you amp learn from me for I am gentle amp humble in heart amp you will find rest for your souls. Matt The life I live in the body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me amp gave himself for me. Galatians Order my steps in thy word amp let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Psalm RT amotherjoy Awe God has a perfect timing for everything. Learn to wait on Him. This brings Him honor and it brings you peace. see Psalm RT AthIetesForGod If what you did yesterday seems big you havent done anything today. Lou Holtz Your actions speak so loud I cant hear your words RT TheDaiIyPuppy Yes maam. I sure would gt Those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. Isaiah I have been crucified with Christ amp I no longer live but Christ lives in me. Galatians RT GodLoved Check out this new shirt from Elevated Faith Only a few left get yours tonight before they sell out gt Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you whom you have from God... Cor Give thanks to the LORD for he is good his love endures forever. Chronicles RT FaithReeI U.S. Marines Sing Days Of Elijah So Good Youll Want To Join In clickgtgt LET JESUS TAKE THE WHEEL. I am a divine creation one of Gods masterpieces. RT TheGospels Amen. To signup for our daily emails Visit gt Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews RT GODsGraces Your word is your honor. If you say youre going to do something then you need to do it. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil amp he will flee from you James Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. Matt For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but to save the world through him. John RT FaithReeI Doctors Prep For Surgery On A Baby Then An MRI Shows Them God Has Other Plans clickgtgt Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil cling to what is good. Romans Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew RT JesusGraces Do NOT feel ashamned for your FAITH gt Be a blessing to someone today Prov And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart amp with all thy soul amp with all thy might. Deuteronomy RT llovmydog RT if you want to adopt this puppy God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love amp of sound mind. Timothy Teach me the way of life. Fill me with the joy of your presence Psalm I pray that the Lord who gives peace will always bless you with peace. May the Lord be with all of you too. Thess Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Revelation RT TabithaKhaye Blind Man Is About To See His Wife amp Baby For The st Time. What He Says Made Us Get The Tissues clickgtgt Taste and see that the LORD is good blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Psalm He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. John Gods plan for your life gt Your plan for your life. What you do in front of people is nothing if you are not living the same life at home behind closed doors. Matthew For I am with you amp no one is going to attack amp harm you because I have many people in this city. Acts God has a wonderful way of turning negatives into positives. Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Cor Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Matthew . RT AthIetesForGod You must stop talking about the problem and start talking about the solution...start speaking words of victory. If the world hates you keep in mind that it hated me first. John I urge you brothers in view of Gods mercy to offer your bodies as living sacrifices holy and pleasing to God. Romans RT JarridWilson You can speak truth and still do it in a loving way. Jesus did it all throughout his life. Life is not fair but God is always faithful. Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of His might. Ephesians Keep falsehood amp lies far from me give me neither poverty nor riches but give me only my daily bread. Proverbs RT FaithReeI Guilty Dog Insists On Making Up What She Does Would Make Anyone Forgive Her clickgtgt But the fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness faithfulness Galatians O LORD be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning our salvation in time of distress. Is RT TheGospels God will always intervene when we need it most. Subscribe to our daily emails gt Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. Timothy RT LovLikeJesus He is all I need. Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud. Corinthians The LORD God said It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Genesis Love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew RT FaithReeI Military Dad Returns amp Sneaks Up On His Kids In Class. Their Reactions Absolutely Priceless Clickgtgt Above all love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Peter RT SportsGreats Do You gt God may not get us out of a situation but He will give us the strength to get through it. It is done unto you as you believe. Matthew The grass withers and the flowers fall but the word of our God stands forever. Isaiah RT amotherjoy So innocent Let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds amp praise your Father in heaven. Matthew Light a fire on the inside. You have the seed of Almighty God. Dont allow something small to keep you from Gods best. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the sons of God. Matthew For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John I am the LORD that is my name I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. Isaiah The Lord my God lights my darkness Psalm I love those who love me amp those who seek me find me. Prov RT TabithaKhaye The Piano Guys Combined The Songs Let It Go amp Vivaldis Winter And Got This Super Viral Hit clickgt Wrong doers eagerly listen to gossip liars pay close attention to slander. Proverbs Finally all of you live in harmony with one another be sympathetic love as brothers be compassionate and humble. Peter Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Hebrews A good name is more desirable than great wealth. Respect is better than silver or gold. Proverbs I called Lord and I was saved from those who hate me Psalm RT llovmycat Me after a midnight meal Pleasant words are as a honeycomb sweet to the mind amp healing to the body. Proverbs RT BibleTime Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart amp with all your soul amp with all your mind. Matthew You shall call and the Lord will answer. Isaiah . Love always protects always trusts always hopes always perseveres. Corinthians Everything can be done for a believer. Mark No temptation has seized u except what is common to man. amp God is faithful he wont let u be tempted beyond what u can bear. Cor Gods Laws are more desirable than gold yes more than much refined gold Psalm RT FaithReeI Popular School Girls Bully Janitor Until He Does Something That Makes Their Jaws Drop Clickgtgt https RT lnspireme The kinda marathon I run during the winter and weekends gt Do not brag about tomorrow because you do not know what another day may bring. Proverbs Wherever you are going God has already been there and paved the way for you. Matt RT TheGospels Find GRACE in HIS MERCY. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. Do not judge so that you will not be judged. Matthew But seek first his kingdom amp his righteousness amp all these things will be given to you as well. Matt RT daiIyscripture In his heart a man plans his course but the LORD determines his steps. Proverbs If you have faith when you pray you will be given whatever you ask for. Matthew RT FaithReeI This Puppy Was Hopelessly Encased In Tar Then Something Awesome happened Clickgtgt The LORD is compassionate and gracious slow to anger abounding in love. Psalm My salvation and my honor depend on God he is my mighty rock my refuge. Psalm RT LovLikeJesus Absolutely gt You are the light of the world. Matthew . Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Peter For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world but that the world might be saved through Him. John Come to me all you who are weary and burdened and I will give you rest. Matthew We dont begin to know what freedom is until we come to a place in our lives where we have no need to impress anybody. God will help you overcome wrong motives and intentions if youll simply ask and receive help rather than trying to do it on your own. But I say to you love your enemies amp pray for those who persecute you. Matthew So if you think you are standing firm be careful that you dont fall Corinthians Good people bring out good things from the good stored in them. Matthew I seek you with all my heart do not let me stray from your commands. Psalm Jesus replied Very truly I tell you no one can see the kingdom of God without being born again. John Create in me a clean heart O God and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Psalm Consider it pure joy whenever u face trials of many kinds because u know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Jame Delight yourself in the LORD and hell give you the desires of your heart. Psalm Blessed are the peacemakers for they will be called children of God. Mat . RT PrayInFaith Its easy to quitit takes faith to go through. If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord amp believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Romans Teach me amp I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job RT JarridWilson Loving people well can only take place when we learn to love God well. For we are Gods workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Eph God sees your pain. He will supply an opportunity. He will provide a way. Bigger and greater than before RT TabithaKhaye The truth sets us free and we need to be able to speak the Truth in our society Truth also does not mean the abuse of o RT FaithReeI Steps To Escaping A Car Sinking In Water Knowing This Could Save Your Life. Clickgtgt Seek ye first his kingdom and righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Matthew Now faith is being sure of what we hope for amp certain of what we do not see. Heb Be strong amp courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Josh RT TheGospels Begin amp End your day with PRAYER. Visit gt amp signup for our daily emails. G O D I S G O O D Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world the love of the Father is not in him. John Say to wisdom You are my sister amp call understanding your intimate friend Proverbs RT FaithReeI Little Boys Reaction To Being In A Toy Store Has Mom Reaching For Her Camera. Clickgtgt Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. James God gt My fearsGod gt My insecuritiesGod gt My worryGod gt My everything For everything there is a season a time for every activity under heaven. Ecclesiastes Preserve me O God for in thee do I put my trust. Psalm May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ amp the love of God amp the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Cor And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. amp surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Matt God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love and of sound mind. Tim God loves you because of who God is not because of anything you did or didnt do. Regina Brett Greater love has no one than this that one lay down his life for his friends. John RT TabithaKhaye He Plays Hallelujah On Crystal Glasses Of Water And It Sounds Heavenly Clickgtgt As iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Proverbs I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Phil Some people are hurting so bad you have to do more than preach a message to them. You have to BE a message to them. For God so loved the world that he gave his one amp only Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.John Come to me all you who are weary amp burdened amp I will give you rest. Matthew When God is all you have then all you have is all you need. And He said. Your faith has made you well go in peace. Luke Teach me and I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. Job RT ScriptureTruth God gt The World God gt The World If you want to give the devil a nervous breakdown get up every day and be as happy as you can possibly be 