I am an official fan of CLAWS on TNT. Those nail salon ladies kick major ass and some of the nail jobs are insane. Republican health care bill boiled down to four words youre on your own. Most TV is cafeteria food. FARGOs three seasons have been gourmet meals. Id love one more. If youre planning to see Idris Elba as Roland finish it. I do not shoot with my hand he who shoots with his hand has forgotten the face of his father. I shoot with my mind. I do not aim with my hand he who aims with his hand has forgotten the face of his father. I aim with my eye. Trump hasnt been very good at keeping his promises but hes certainly a worldclass gloater. SPIKE TV tonight at PM. The premiere. I get MISTyeyed just thinking about it. Barbies bff Ken now comes with a man bun or cornrows. You go with your bad self Kenny. RT donwinslow You see some strange things all over the NYC Subway System these days... RT OwenKingwriter Full disclosure its not actually the same shirt. Perfect rock for Monday. Im with you. Trump as president is like an impulsive hotheaded yearold with an wheeler truckers license. Blocked by Donald Trump but still I persist. jkrowling BevVincent Well Im not the Donalds fan so that lets out Annie Wilkes. I think hes got more of a Dementor vibe. Guns man. When are we going to look this issue in the eye and do something about it RT sluggahjells Alexandria provides the latest conservatives guide of blame for mass shootings. Blocked Condemned to an existential wasteland of Trumplessness jkrowling BevVincent Thanks. Maybe its a hoax. Im good either way. Ill always have Pence hahahaha. Have others received a notification of being blocked from Trumps tweets or is it a hoax Its not as if his tweets are hard to find Trump has blocked me from reading his tweets. I may have to kill myself. Trumps cabinet offers a postgraduatelevel course in asskissing. THE MIST TV series premieres on Spike June nd. You might want to mark it on your calendar. Its really good. If Ivanka Trump had grown up in farm country like some of us shed know her father is reaping exactly what he sowed. RT OwenKingwriter Come see us in Newton courtesy of one of my favorite bookstores in the whole world newtonvillebks. Miamonroe KateySagal Mambo of course. And speaking of the Ramones... Not the best Ramones song but the best Ramones title Every time I Eat Vegetables I Think of You KateySagal Mambo by Lou Bega. Kidding Can we have Obama back Please After listening to Comey today and Trump for last and a half months I have a clear opinion on which one is the actual nut job. I woke up this morning with Back Off Boogaloo in my head. Its been there all day.Horrible. I fear I may have been possessed by a demon. Our idiotic president seems to have confused whats politically correct with what is unconstitutional. RT idriselba I go forward for the Tower and I will accept no prisoners DarkTowerMovie Molly aka the Thing of Evil rests after another tiring day of doing bad shit. If those London assholes had had guns the death toll would have been much higher. London lives. And thrives. And stands together. I love you guys. We all do. Covfefe is from THE NECRONOMICON and actually means Hail Cuthulu RT jkrowling Very much enjoying the German press at the moment. Earth to Trump... Godiva sent me a box of chocolates. Thats livin large when you have choclates on your coffee table. According to the HBO warning screen THE LEFTOVERS features violence but thank God only Brief Nudity. Just when you think Trump cannot possibly do anything more stupid than gunrunning to the Saudis he pulls out of the Paris Accords. OMG No wonder Trumps always blabbing about fake news. He is a fake president. RT joehill My Mom looking serene and wise. I got a quarter heads Carolina tails California somewhere greener somewhere warmer... Man I love it. Todays Country Day in my house. The picture of Trump emerging is of a dimbulb Manchurian Candidate nudged toward the Russians by his own advisors. Hotel bathroom this morning. Mr. Businessman type checking stocks on his iPad while taking a piss. Addicted or just casual You tell me. RT shujaxhaider Wanna feel old This is what Fleetwood Mac looks like now ISIS A rogue cult that has substituted superstition and murder for spirituality. Every bombing hastens the day when they will be no more. THE Season finale on the th. I cant wait. RT RealCliveBarker Its the only logical course of action at this point. Trumps been president months today. Seems like years. Not a good night for my Boston guyslackluster Sox lost and the Cavs beat the Celtics like a rented mule. Remind your friends who support Trump that the press only reports the news. Donald Trump is doing this to himself. Obama on Trump as quoted in PEOPLE magazine Hes nothing but a bullshitter. It actually used to be pumpernickel but with inflation its pumpadime. Nyucknyucknyuck. The puns in response are sick. Love em. Come on out and see us on tour Q Is there such a thing as stupid breadA Yes TrumpernickelThank you very much Ill be here all week folks Gwendys Button Box a new novella by me and Richard Chizmar goes on sale tomorrow. Available on audio too. Hope you buy hope you like. Trump releases classified info to the Russians. Not fake news not liberal bias. Folks HES DOING THIS TO HIMSELF. RT AriBerman days before Nixons Saturday Night Massacre in Trump was sued by DOJ for refusing to rent to black tenants via EyalP I wish Tom Kirkman was president. I felt really depressed today so I ate a whole bunch of chocolate. It cheered me up quite a lot. Chocolate seems to be the answer. RT KristenGBaldwin Please let this be Revenge The Sequel a drama about Emily Thornes new identity as a deceptively meek med student. Somebody already tweeted this but its too good and too funny not to repost. Donald Trump A remarkable combination of unhinged and dumb as dirt. Time to start talking impeachment. Really. Enough is enough. Check IT out. What some good summer reading Grab all volumes of Greg Iless NATCHEZ BURNING trilogy. Pure suspense pure backroads Americana. RT linwoodbarclay So the GOP could now end up killing more people in the US than terrorists do but a travel ban wont work. Theyre alr DESIGNATED SURVIVOR keeps getting better and isnt Maggie Q something Terrific performance. I apologize and Im sorry arent quite the same thing. Not a good idea to say I apologize at a funeral. Bruce Poliquin voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act aka Obamacare. Remember next November. That this guy has his finger on the nuclear trigger is worse than any horror story I ever wrote. Trumps tweets in his first hundred days draw a pretty clear portrait hes an almost textbook case of narcissistic personality disorder. If the Republicans vote away health care for their big biz big daddies remember next November. THE DARK TOWER trailer is here. And its awesome. RT BevVincent Before you buy that Dark Tower shirt RT idriselba McConaughey I deal in lead. DarkTowerMovie The Dark Tower trailer is coming. Mister we deal in lead. RT McConaughey .idriselba You want the Tower At least Trump has provoked some great music. Heres Ike Reillys awesome new antitravel ban song. Dig it. Deeply sad to hear my friend neighbor and colleague Jonathan Demme has passed on. He was one of the real good guys. I miss you buddy. Mollys portrait now hanging in the Hall of Evil. You may visit it in Derry Maine. Best TWD line of the year belongs to Eugene ...it can change the game of our food situation from critical to hunkydunky. I say this gently and kindly If you voted for Trump and still think hes doing a good job you havent been paying attention. The MR. MERCEDES series is really good. And if you watch closely you just might see yours truly. Subterranean Homesick Blues The first rap song Molly aka the Thing of Evil falls into a depression after finding out Bill OReilly has left TV. Vet prescribes Z GOLDEN PREY by John Sanford The best Lucas Davenport story so far. The man has a fine touch for outlaws. Next week. Get it. Over and out. Speaking about DJs of yore does anybody remember Dwayne Glasscock Did I dream that guy RT ithildinlass StephenKing Humble but Mighty John And Bobby Russell etc. Thanks for WKIT and Z retro weekends where we can sti Rocking today and thinking of favorite DJs of yore Mighty John Arnie Woo Woo Ginsberg Joey Reynolds Cousin Brucie...and the Wolfman. RT jespernweigner StephenKing It backfired horribly on OReilly. Two rutting dinosaurs validating one another is just too much for Ameri Trump supported OReilly because both are members of the odious boys club where members feel they can abuse amp humiliate women at will. New book by FOX News Killing Bill OReilly. Unhappy North Korean rocket scientists tonight headed for Camp tomorrow. Thats the gulag. Come on chickenshit if youre man enough to drop a megabomb on Afghanistan you should be man enough to release your tax returns. I spent part of the morning cruising with DJ Phlash Phelps on SiriusXM. The music always sounds better on Friday. Why is that The world was a relatively stable place when Obama left office but look at us now. Macho posturing by President Forrest Trump. RT OwenKingwriter No idea when the price dropped or how long it will last but Double Feature is currently . for the Kindle I found out about HOTEL BEAU SEJOUR from Bev Vincent. You should follow him. RT SethAbramson RETWEET if you agree that Trumps new attitude toward Russia is a transparent attempt to distract from the worsening Rus RT joehill There was a lot of eye rolling about the idea that somehow it would be a risk to give Trump The Button. He has it amp is pushin Spicer didnt just let down the president with his witless crack he let down Jews all over the world. He needs to apologize then resign. Molly aka the Thing of Evil discovers one ring to rule them all one ring to bind them. It was in Mordor where s HOTEL BEAU SEJOUR on Netflix Eccentric brilliant and strangely touching. Supernatural fare for those who dont ordinarily like it. THE MIST is coming. But seriouslySpicers level of lazy ignorance is representative of the whole Trump administration starting with Golden Boy himself. If donuts were awarded for dumb Sean Spicer would have his own Krispy Kreme franchise. With President Forrest Trump every day is like a rancid box of chocolates. You never know what kind of shit youre going to get next. The clowns are pissed at me. Sorry most are great. BUT...kids have always been scared of clowns. Dont kill the messengers for the message. NTXProgressive What a little sweetie The blurb on James Pattersons latest book is from...James Patterson Bennys reaction at being carjacked by Molly aka the Thing of Evil. Drive you big bastard Molly snarled. The weight of the discarded plastic in our oceans is now greater than that of all the living fish. For me COLONY has replaced TWD as the most subversive show on cable TV. Looking forward to the finale tomorrow night. My lucky year. THE MIST MR. MERCEDES GERALDS GAME THE DARK TOWER and IT Believe it or not they all look awesome. RT CemeteryDance PREORDER for the audiobook of GWENDYS BUTTON BOX by StephenKing RichardChizmar read by Maggie Siff. Order here htt joehill Thats too cheerful. You need to dial it down a little. Reading over Ali Baba and the Thieves and thinking of the Trump administration. Hows this for a new TV slogan FOX News Home of the Horndogs Molly aka the Thing of Evil is in training to take on Pennywise and the Man in Black in a tagteam match. She sa Trump administration most scandalridden since that of U.S. Grant. And its only months old RT joehill In the late s I asked my Dad how to write a cover letter for my short fiction submissions. He was glad to help out. https Plus would have to shake hands with illegal immigrant terrorist ballplayers with unAmerican names like Martinez and Escobar. Trump declines to throw out st pitch when the Nats open their season. Cites sked conflict but knows the negative reaction would be bigly. We all float down here.Youll float too. If Trump and Pence really cared about womens rights amp empowerment they would respect and support a womans right to choose. RT ericornelas The new It movie looks intense itmovie UK readers you have a nice surprise coming. No not Brexit FEVER by Deon Meyer. Reminiscent of THE STAND and THE PASSAGE. Great stuff. The new book is coming early this fall. Collaborating with Owen was exciting. Constant Reader this one is going to Thanks to Republicans those advocates of rugged individualism Big Brother can now access your browsing history. Gertrude Stein might have been talking about Mike Pences tweets when she said theres no there there. Because all the spiders are still getting their act together. But soon my friends. Very soon. I understand Bill OReillys got a new book coming out. Whos he killing in this one This is the best opening credit sequence Ive seen since the early Bond movies. Check it out. RT blumhouse Beep beep Some brand new images from Andrs Muschiettis hotlyanticipated IT remake just landed... Take a look Brit cops investigating motivation of terror attack. Heres a hint the guy was as crazy as a rat in a rain barrel. Politics secondary. RT zachheltzel Shit guys. I think he might really be Making America Great Again. Florida profracking ads explained It brings in jobs so fuck the environment. No vote. The Repubs decided if they couldnt win the game rather than play they would take their bats amp ball amp go home. Typical behavior. OBAMACARE LIVES A Salon headline articulated a question Ive been asking myself for years Why are Republicans so mean to poor people How about waking up to some real rock and roll I recommend the Swingin Neckbreakers. Re school and vestibule Also used in My DingaLing tweeters say. And maybe by the Beastie Boys. But Chuck was the first with the best Mr. Trump if you have any moral sense or common decency you will apologize for your unfounded and baseless wiretap allegations. Anthony Boy by Chuck Berry A little act of genius the only song in rock history to rhyme school with vestibule. RIP Bernie Wrightson a good friend and a great collaborator. I will miss him. RT DarkTowerMovie All hail harlanelam our DTFanArtContest winner Take a look at his rendition of The Dark Tower and thanks to all who RT BarackObama Chuck Berry rolled over everyone who came before him and turned up everyone who came after. Well miss you Chuck. Be Pilgrim there are other worlds than these. Come with us on the adventure. DarkTowerMovie Hey you Meals on Wheels users who voted for Trump Hows that working out for ya THE Call me a pessimist but I wouldnt give you a dime for Bellamys chances. The Coolerator was crammed with TV dinners and ginger ale. Cant beat that line Chuck Berry died. This breaks my heart but years old aint bad for rock and roll. Johnny B. Goode forever. RT SimonAudio Calling all StephenKing fans JamesFranco will narrate TheDeadZone available . Read more RT ScribnerBooks Fair warning StephenKing would push you in front of zombies to save his corgi amp MollyAKATheThingOfEvil would like Pence has TRUSTWORTHY hair but on a soap opera you would never trust it. Molly aka the Thing of Evil lies in wait for any salesman foolish enough to approach the door. Her attack is sile VP Pence would make a cool soap opera villainsleazy corporate lawyer embezzling society doctor something like that. The hair just works. VP Rave on thou vile traducer. In other words keep on spewing. Remember when the Who sang Hope I die before I get old They are now scheduled to play an extended gig in Vegas. RT Breznican Just wrapped up some work and logged into Twitter to find ... Rachel Maddow is releasing Trumps tax returns. Molly aka the Thing of Evil sleeps contentedly with her latest victim. Ralph the Raccoon made the mistake of diss Melissa McBRIDE. Autocorrect did it. I HATE autocorrect. Must turn it off. Only what if it comes back In the dark Best line in this weeks TWD I didnt ask for much and got more than I deserved. Story of my life man. Melissa McBridge has been given an extraordinary character to play in Carol Peletier and she has risen to the opportunity. Kudos. HULU is an ancient Chinese word meaning holder of precious things. Just thought youd like to know in case you want to rewatch . On todays agenda Lets dance lets shout gettin funky what its all about. I MARRIED A MONSTER FROM OUTER SPACE is perhaps the best title in the history of cinema. Boom youve got your whole story right there. Im down with that. Waffle House ever. Andy Muschiettis remake of IT actually its Part The Losers Club succeeds beyond my expectations. Relax. Wait. And enjoy. For a business guy Trump is amazingly credulous. The last thing to go into his ear is the first thing that comes out of his mouth. blumhouse XMEN LOST ENDINGI can still see I saw it at the Ritz Theater in Lewiston Maine. Never forgot it. THE WALKING DEAD last night Scary zombies Even scarier a sign for deep fried butter BTW just how did Michonne get out of the trunk linwoodbarclay rupertfriend Totally agree. Rupert Friend is terrific. RT KellyBraffet Working title for every book I have ever written THIS PIECE OF SHIT WILL BE THE DEATH OF ME Topping off the weekend with some Rhino Bucket and Ive got that sucker turned up to . Shaking the house. RT RichardChizmar Man I love this story The whole thing just races... It all just sang. JJ Ab Trump should know OBAMA NEVER LEFT THE WHITE HOUSE Hes in the closet HE HAS SCISSORS Obama tapped Trumps phones IN PERSON Went in wearing a Con Ed coverall. Michelle stood guard while O spliced the lines. SAD Not only did Obama tap Trumps phones he stole the strawberry ice cream out of the mess locker. All politics aside the Trump administration reminds me of that Tom Arnould movie THE STUPIDS. Really you guys this is embarrassing. RT ericgeller Big new NYT story about Obama officials thhour efforts to preserve the Russian hacking investigation. THE GOOD FIGHT Its good to have Diane Lockhart back. By the second episode Id stopped missing Alicia. Well I still miss her a little. RT RioYouers .BevVincents interview with StephenKing and RichardChizmar. Bloody good stuff. RT pattonoswalt years ago America was a wilderness full of frightened violent lunatics. We have years to return it to that state. They looked at each other for a long moment before Rick said Heres looking at you kid. RT Breznican Stephen King fans ... lets take a trip back to Castle Rock tomorrow yeah RT RichardChizmar Tomorrow... TS Eliot wrote that. TrumptyDumpty promised a wall. TrumptyDumpty had a great fall. Mexican woman amp Mexican men wouldnt put Trumpty together again. RT BevVincent Unrelenting and Unforgettable The Terror of Andre Linoge via HorrorGeekLife Bill Paxton gone How can that be Fine actor fine man. Game over man. Game over. FAKE NEWS Evolution. REAL NEWS The earth is years old. FAKE NEWS Adolescent males enjoy superhero movies. REAL NEWS Adolescent males enjoy Mike Pence interviews on FOX News. Oh wait Is Paul Harvey dead FAKE NEWS. Paul Harvey is alive and well living in Graceland. Fake news Facts casting Donald Trump or his administration in a bad light. Real news Anything in Breitbart Drudge Paul Harvey. POTUS All white faces. Looking well fed and complacent. RT ethanjking Can we all agree that animals are objectively cuter when theyre chubby Suppression of the press is fascistic. Confession I have used for a long moment often. I think we get it from those meaningful glances in the movies. For some reason Never In addition to being compulsively readable nowhere in Don Winslows THE FORCE will you find for a long moment or for some reason. VP Really And replace it with what Do your job Don Winslows THE FORCE coming in June is mesmerizing a triumph. Think THE GODFATHER only with cops. Its that good. Even a Thing of Evil needs a pal to chum with. This is Mollys friend Nom aka Nasty Old Monkey. JewbaccaDefense yes. EDgar was extremely cool. But um. Didnt he die blumhouse Not this one. LEGACY Just not the same without Jack Bauer twisting arms and giving head noogies. And Chloe This show needs Chloe BAD For some reason it took me a long momenta very long momentto look at the responses to my last tweets. Example For some reason he had to go back to that house. Now reallyhow lazy is that Example He looked at her for a long moment. No. Just He looked at her. Aspiring fiction writer Cool Here are phrases you must NEVER use for a long moment and for some reason. Find another way I know I know Dont quit my day job. RT RJConnell StephenKing Hell be here all week folks Remember to try the veal Q. How can you tell its a trombone players kid on the playgroundA. He cant swing and complains about the slide. RT linwoodbarclay I spent years in newspapers with folks who devoted their lives to truth and justice. Enemies my ass. They were hero JJAbrams and I want to invite you to take a trip to Castle Rock. Soon. Be afraid. Trump voters who thought they were getting a macho man got an excusemaker instead. Poor me the press is so mean. Get over it. That press conference Trump gave A lot of whining. The press Obama Hillary just wahwahwah. Hes a great big baby with orange hair. Mothers are a font of weird syings. Mine used to say Dont wear rubber boots in the house they draw your feet. What does that even mean Ive got an advance copy of Don Winslows new novel THE FORCE and am starting this weekend so whos better than me pattonoswalt Haha good one never heard that one before. Do you make yourself laugh Where do you get your ideas Patton Oswalt eat your heart out. Hotdog guy gives him a loaded dog Buddhist gives him a gets nothing back. Hotdog vendor explains Change comes from within. Buddhist walks up to a hotdog stand and says Make me one with everything. No comment needed. Trumps your basic hot mess isnt he I mean this guy cant find his own ass with both hands and a flashlight. Note exclamation points and capital letters. Should have sent it at AM but was actually sleeping like a normal person. My Trump imitation Stupid Repubs want to destroy Affordable Care act but have no idea how to replace it Destroying America SAD FAUDA on Netflix. Cool Israeli thriller. With episodes only a little longer than your average sitcom its all killer and no filler. Not a plug just a fact. Good tshirts. My New Years resolution to buy American is proving surprisingly difficult to keep. Thank God for American Giant threads at least. Anyway you should read BEHIND HER EYES. Even if its not a thumping good read its bloody brilliant. Im getting static over that thumping good read thing. Some British newspaper ran a contest and Robert Goddard won Spent most of the day reading the second half of BEHIND HER EYES by Sarah Pinborough. What the Brits call a thumping good read. Bravo Saw a rough cut of Mike Flanagans GERALDS GAME yesterday. Horrifying hypnotic terrific. Its gonna freak you out. Schooled by the notreal Donald Trump. Even worse. There ya go. I been schooled. RT linwoodbarclay Every night VP Mike Pence gets home and his wife asks Well And he says Soon. Isaac Newton discovers how gravity works. Donald Trump discovers how democracy works. Trump voters According to the NY Times your border wall is going to cost billion. Will Mexico pay for it An alternative fact. Court ruling Basically what the judges said was this Fear of the boogeyman does NOT allow the trashing of the Constitution. Anybody besides me think Bellamy on THE looks and sounds like Ben Affleck Guns for people with mental issues Safe Muslim immigrants Oh God no Nevertheless she persisted. So must we all. You go girl. Down by the White House early in the morning see the little Plunder Monkeys all in a row. Mr. Bannon pulls the little handle off they go. chrisburdette Netflix. NO SECOND CHANCE a sixpart French adaptation of Harlan Cobens novel. Terrific entertainment. Most Republicans in lockstep on the confirmation of woefully unqualified Betsy DeVos. Thanls to Collins and Murkowski for at least trying. Third place Im on it. RT collagecandy StephenKing ...with Can we have the room as a close second. RT Penman StephenKing Give us the room Give us the room was the runnerup. At last we can announce a winner in the category of Most Overused TV Phrase in Give me a minute I have to take this. StarMtnMedia Good one Not to rub it in but the Falcons really managed to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. Patriots My boys Trumps statement that if something happens blame the judge and the court system is wrong on so so many levels. Figured out Pences face. The whole thing grows when he lies not just his nose. Hes SUPER Pinocchio WEINER Fascinating doc about a bright but troubled man. The underlying question is why the shit stuck to him...but not to Trump. RT PublishersWkly Why the Milo Yiannopoulos Book Deal Tarnishes the Publishing Industry Well I misspelled like but you get what I mean. Where is SpellCheck when you need it Trumps tweets are both malevolent and excruciatingly dumb. He comes off sounding lie a pro wrestling bad guy from . VP No thats because your fly is unzipped. Only in America could people be as excited about the ads as the game. Total consumer addiction. frankiesaxx Nailed it. Not to belabor the point but how can you look at Pences hair and not get the willies It doesnt even look like hair. I think what Im trying to get at about Pence is this Im not sure hes human. He looks like a replicant. What is it with Mike Pence Every time I see him on TV his face looks bigger. Repubs plan to water down DoddFrank giving the Plunder Monkeys free rein. Those too dumb to remember the past are doomed to repeat it. American advertising at its best Photo by my nephew Jon Time to gather Skaikru fans. THE is back. Todays bummer Trump screws up our relationship with Australia a longtime ally. Our president is an impulsive badtempered idiot. RT colliderfrosty Any Republican that follows me...do you honestly support this I really want to hear a defense of this because to me it Thanks to Susan Collins for saying No on Betsy DeVos. Notice that its possible to be a good Republican and still say no to Donald Trump. joehill What its like to be shot from a cannon See the reviews I got on NEEDFUL THINGS. How about some extreme vetting of Donald Trumps tax returns Trumps view of fake news explained If it runs counter to what I believe or say its fake. The facts are irrelevant. Molly aka the Thing of Evil meets with Donald Trumps White House staff. VP Right and Im an astronaut. If only Donald Trump was as good at governing as he is at firing people of conscience. His presidency is a joke. Sadly were the butt. RT Deshaunnea Birds of a feather or should we say sit on each others laps realDonaldTrump is a puppet for SteveBannon impeachtrump realDonaldTrump POTUS We learned it from the Republicans. Imagine a hooligan pouring sugar into the gas tank of an expensive and wellmaintained car. Trump is that hooligan. America is that car. RT HRC No ban no wall. Sanctuary for all LoveConquersHate Call your congressmanwoman. Call your senator. The Republicans who refuse to stand against this madness need to hear from you. Ministers of all faiths tomorrow you should get in your pulpit with the Christian Bible and preach on Luke . if you call yourself a Christian how can you support this latest Trump cruelty Molly aka the Thing of Evil does research for her forthcoming movie LOOKING FOR MR. GOOD BALL. RT Breznican For me this is the motto of TheResistance. I want it on a shield. In Latin. seangerace Jeez I dont know. Im going to check on that. The ugliest first week of a presidency in the history of the American republic. Please ask Susan Collins a SANE Republican senator to vote against the totally unqualified Betsy DeVos. Re DARKTOWN by Thomas Mullen Cant help wondering if Lucius Boggss Uncle Percy was based on black historical novelist Frank Yerby. RT michikokakutani Trump silences gov scientists at EPA ampDept of Agriculture theyre blocked fm communicating w public amp press verge ht Molly aka the Thing of Evil tries to convince me it was her stuffed monkey who shit in the corner. Calls it an al No comment needed. DARKTOWN by Thomas Mullen A brilliant blending of crime mystery and American history Atlanta just after WWII. Terrific entertainment. Breaking News Sean Spicer is an idiot. Protest marches everywherewonderful. I was at a huge rally in Sarasota. A great positive vibe there and everywhere. Trump is only supposed to get his salary while Prez. He is in violation of the Constitutions Emoluments Clause. Check it for yourself. RT MrDavidJohns Trump Breaks First Presidential Promise In Record Time Hats At Inaugural Were Made In China GetUsedToIt Welcome to the age of plunder bluster and empty rhetoric. In other words to the Age of Dumb. If you voted for him youre responsible. I wish anyone other than Donald Trumpleft right or centerwere taking the Oath of Office tomorrow. My preference would be Barack Obama. michikokakutani One of my alltime favorites. Love Toby Keith. Great country artist. Supports the troops. Hopefully hell play The Draft Dodger Rag for Trump at that inaugural bash. brainsvbrawndo seankent yes They float And youll float too The oboe an ill wind nobody blows good.Thank you ladies and gentlemen tomorrow Ill be playing the Holiday Inn. Ringling Bros closing down but will be replaced by the Pennywise Traveling Terror Tour. Bring the kids Pennywise has balloons Hooray Boston Globe describes El Trumpos cabinet as a whos who of homophobia. Is he going to be president or Americas Czar of Hate RIP William Peter Blatty who wrote the great horror novel of our time. So long Old Bill. Dont know if this resolves the bet but the Sloopy in the McCoys song was probably a jazz singer and piano player named Dorothy Sloop. THE AUTOPSY OF JANE DOE Visceral horror to rival ALIEN and early Cronenberg. Watch it but not alone. Goodness that was a train wreck. Its like watching a float in the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade. The current Trump allegations may not be true but seeing him fed a dose of his own nasty medicine has a certain rough justice. Hope you enjoyed Obamas speech. You wont hear anything so cogent and kind for a long time. So with complete sincerity THANKS OBAMA. RT pattonoswalt The little speaker echo during the ObamaFarewell makes me hope he does the Waaaaay down inside... part from Whole Lot Golden showers and the president of the United States in the same story. We have now officially entered the basement. So embarrassing. Trumps response to Meryl Streepchildish churlish petulantis exactly why most Americans fear his presidency. Emtoionally unqualified. linwoodbarclay I should not have read your tweet. Now Im sick. YOU WILL KNOW ME by Megan Abbott What an excellent novel. Gave me the creeps in the best possible way. Having conquered the earth Molly aka the Thing of Evil prepares to battle King Neptune for the watery deep. RT joehill Remember that a lot of people believed rancid fake news stories about Hillary because they WANTED to believe them. Hate makes linwoodbarclay Oh man. Sorry to hear that. RT NBCNews Top Russians celebrated when Trump won intel report says source Salon Donald Trump electors were illegally seated as Electoral College members. Bipartisan legal briefing. Guns though Okay Kentucky Repub Robert Stivers Women relinquish their right to choose by getting pregnant in the st place. Guns though Okay Im mistaken. Spell check isnt evil. Autocorrect is evil. Spell Check is just evil. James verse God opposite the proud but giveth grace to the humble. Keep it in mind El Trumpo. That dude standing next to El Trumpo on New Years Eve Joey No Socks Cinque convicted felon associated with the Gambino family. Nice. Well shit. Youre right. Happy birthday anyway. RT EW Its time to add book publishers to the list of things ghosts internet trolls Leslie Jones isnt afraid of Molly aka the Thing of Evil did a few too many Colt .s on New Years Eve. Still recovering. Loved Mariah Carey Bill Kitchen and Commander Cody. Surreal and great. OwenGleiberman Variety I felt LA LA LAND was overpraised by critics who dug the retro vibe. It was a fine entertainment but great No. Patriots squish the Fish Great New Years Day present for moi RT ethanjking Listen to Trump bitch about SNL like were supposed to take this walking trash fire seriously One remarkable difference between Obama and Trump the latter seems to have absolutely no sense of humor. The clearest sign of a dull mind. RIP Carrie Fisher and dont forget Richard Adams. Fine writer. The first great thriller of is almost here FINAL GIRLS by Riley Sager. If you liked GONE GIRL youll like this. Another fine musical talent goneRIP George Michael. Spent Christmas evening dancing around to Before You GoGo. Damn you . Merry Christmas you guys. May your day be peaceful and full of fun. Americans have been very bad this year but instead of coal in our stockings were getting a big fat lump o Trump. Holiday advice from John Anderson If you get on the whiskey let somebody else drive. According to the Asshat Elect we need more nukes. The guys probably right. We only have enough to destroy the world times over. Clinton won the election by million votesthats MILLIONand that idiot Trump is going to be president. Whats wrong with this country The only seasonal song that doesnt get old for me is Christmas Baby Please Come Home by Darlene Love. Molly aka the Thing of Evil waits to bite the next person to tell her shes such a cute little doggy. Its all If I hear Holly Jolly Christmas or The Little Drummer Boy one more time Im going to lose my shit. RT SonyPictures And may you have twice the number. DarkTowerMovie No more landlines said Sergeant Friday. Just the fax maam. RT adambozarth StephenKing I think more people are actually born in WalMarts which is a bit more horrifying since you have to live wit I wonder how many people have died in Walmart stores over the years. Can you imagine that in your obit Soandso died in Housewares RIP. I picture Americas landline system as a slowly dying dinosaur. Cant someone figure out something useful to do with it Check out Neil Gaimans admirable charityinitiative at Do it now time is short. Good elf Putin told Mr. Trump I will help you win the election but you will owe me. Mr. TRump said Owe me or own me Either okay with me RT skdotcomnews Video from the launch of Hearts in Suspension at UMaine is now available online. Once upon a time children the Republicans didnt like the Russians. Then a good elf named Putin came along and all that changed. Trumps crew of plundermonkeys has begun to look like the Polituro West. RT LiteraryNymph A monumental grassroots movement happening right now Pls retweet StephenKing joehill OwenKingwriter KellyBraff Trumps proposed cabinet is the worst in American history a motley crew of plundermonkeys. Loving THE TWENTYTHREE by Linwood Barclay. You should treat yourself to the whole Promise Falls trilogy. Trumps mental condition is open to debate I suppose that hes an incompetent asshat seems undeniable. After checking Twitter Mollyaka the Thing of Evilthinks the redsuited invader is TrumpAClaus. Shes watchin Thanks to Goodreads readers for picking END OF WATCH. Molly aka the Thing of Evil stakes out Santas probable landing site hoping to bite the ass out of that red suit TRAIN TO BUSAN Holy shit its like John Woo meets the zombie apocalypse. This makes THE WALKING DEAD look tame. Oh and grandiosity. If you had a close relative behaving this way youd encourage him to see hisher doctor. Trumps tweets display hysteria aggression paranoia insecurity. Politics aside his mental state bears close watching. Just coolness. donwinslow Of course. I love Meg Gardiner. Been jonesing for a new one. pattonoswalt At least she called you a man. The Darts Take What I Need. Very cool. Anybody remember THE CAINE MUTINY It seems that Americans may have elected Captain Queeg president. RT TomthunkitsMind Racist presidentRacist chief strategistRacist attorney generalRacist natsec advisorMedia how Trump will govern r pattonoswalt Absolutely. Stuffed with vitamins. I just read a charming childrens book called CHARLIE THE CHOOCHOO. You should buy copies Perhaps Only wish I had written it Molly aka the Thing of Evil enjoys her favorite Thanksgiving dessert Zombie Cat Eyeball. Happy Thanksgiving yall. The Presidentelect prepares his Christmas cards to foreign leaders. nytimes michikokakutani Yes from ABSALOM ABSALOM but the man who says it is soft in the head. One more thing before I drift away for awhile A common sign in antiques stores reading IF YOU BREAK IT YOU OWN IT. No more book recommendations politics or amusing dog pictures for the immediate future. Im shutting down. The ugliest election in living memory is almost over but the polls are still open. VOTE PEOPLE. Do your job. What everyones saying Trumpie loved the FBI while they were saying what he wanted to hear. Now not so much. Dont vote for Trump if he wont release his taxes. FBI has cleared Clinton in the latest email goround. Tempest in a teapot. ProTrump FBIers maybe trying to influence the vote. RT revnaomi Leadership Project Aims to Educate High School About Somali Culture Welcome back to standard time and just what this ugly election cycle needed an extra hour. joehill Dont leave us Come for the arguments stay for the paranoia Congrats to the Cubs and thanks to Cleveland for giving us all a th game for the ages. Molly aka the Thing of Evil after believing Donald Trump was the CANDIDATE of evil switches her allegiance to so Trump Sexist oinker tax dodger draft dodger pal of Putin racist serial liar ANNNND...Republican candidate for president RT LPDonovan Im sure theres a perfectly good explanation for this... Molly aka the Thing of Evil prepares for her maiden voyage on her new flying carpet. November baseball tomorrow night in Cleveland. That just seems unAmerican. STEPHEN KING HEARTS IN SUSPENSION available for preorder. This turned out well. Im proud of it. Check it out. Molly aka the Thing of Evil considers ripping my throat out and decides to wait at least until after dindin is s Trump complains about Clinton corruption but still wont release his tax returns. Thats called hypocrisy folks. News people covering this election are like kids overloaded with sugar on Christmas eve. The frenzy to open presents has become tiresome. Trump voters please think again. Sure youre mad. I get that. But you dont burn down the house because you dont like the decor. pattonoswalt TheGoldbergsABC Okay Im there. Enough with the Cubs How about some love for the Cleveland Indians GO TRIBE As the late Johnnie Cochran might have said about Donald Trump If hes a rectum you must not elect im. One guy writes boiling hot dogs is for suckersbut how can you trust a guy who calls himself Mr. Doodyhead I bought some hot dogs and the pckage explains how to boil them. It says put them in water ampturn up the heat. Who knew marykarrlit I Hopi the bank agrees with that. Im reading THE NIX by Nathan Hill. Just started but so far its got me laughing hysterically. First pages are worth the price. RT TJ StephenKing Trump or treat Mr. King Trump or treat. My newest horror story Once upon a time there was a man named Donald Trump and he ran for president. Some people wanted him to win. Repubs want to put nuclear weapons in the hands of a man with the temperament of a yearold. This goes beyond my understanding. Chris Wallace did a good job. Taking no shit like a veteran teacher monitoring detention hall. RT ShaneLeonard Watching the debate tonight with a pair of sunglasses right out of TheyLive TheHorrorMaster Lets see how many times Trump manturrupts her. DavidDzierba So its OK then If youre a man whose wife or daughters have been sexually harassed and youre still planning to vote for Donald Trump shame on you. To slightly revise an old s paperback cover Trump has hit the gutter...and bounced lower. After celebrating her nd birthday by pounding a couple of s Molly crashes on the bed no doubt dreaming of chao RT KellyBraffet Check out this gorgeous piece of gorgeousness that just showed up on my doorstep. mulhollandbooks Suppose you were an idiot and suppose you were Donald Trump But I repeat myself. Apologies to Mark Twain The new issue of CEMETERY DANCE contains a new and brilliant short novel from Joe Hill. Snapshot will blow your mind. HEARTS IN SUSPENSION coming soon from me amp others. University of Maine Press. Details here. Michelle Obama To dismiss this as everyday locker room talk is an insult to decent men everywhere. Thank you for saying that. I am ecstatic that Bob Dylan has won the Nobel. A great and good thing in a season of sleaze and sadness. I cant wait for this ugly fucking presidential campaign to be over. Todays great country music title She Got the Ring and I Got the Finger. Molly aka the Thing of Evil enjoys her usual breakfast of gin and juice while listening to Iron Maidens Powersla Hillary is speaking in specifics. Donald is...well...fulminating. Trump is up past his bedtime. Trump looks like a big ole sulky baby. Do we need a big ole sulky baby as President That young woman can BRING IT. I love PITCH. Kylie Bunbury is outstanding as Ginny Baker. Hey Donald Did you kiss your mother with that mouth Electing Donald Trump to fix America would be like fixing eczema with a blowtorch. Repubs all hot to stop the drug epidemic but they dont want to talk about how some folks want to get high because they have nothing else. Trumps taxes made me think of a Travis Tritt song that goes The fat mans busy dancing while the poor man pays the band. Hey whatever happened to polite Canadians The Pence debate technique If you dont like the question like about Trumps taxes dont answer it. Sad that Big Papi is retiring but glad Ill get to see him against Cleveland. Still...end of an era man. End of a Breznican Its the partial remains of a billy bumbler from MidWorld. Hey guys time to cool the clown hysteriamost of em are good cheer up the kiddies make people laugh. The more I read about and listen to Donald Trump the more appalled I am. Not as a Democrat as a human being. A genuinely nasty man. Laura Lippmans latest novel WILDE LAKE is a knockout. You should get right on that. CATS EYE on HBO this morning made me remember that it was just the nd movie rated PG. The first was RED DAWN. moosewill I think Molly has an evil twin My favorite Trump button. Sent to me by Maine humorist Tim Sample. Two candidates onstage last night at Hofstra one prepared to be President one prepared to go on Sean Hannitys radio show. Molly aka the Thing of Evil preps for her job as moderator at the next ClintonTrump debate. If anyone can make T I have property there This guy is off the wall. Hillary is wiping the floor with him. THE GOOD WIFE Peter Florrik goes from prison in Season to governor in Season . Only believable because were talking Chicago politics. Texas may go for Trump but they have a saying for guys like him Hes so low he could put on a tophat and crawl under a rattlesnake. Thanks to everybody who came out today in Washington DC. That was a damn good time. Right And when you turn its the law that they give you a parade and everything is free right Thanks for all the happy birthday wishes you guys. Getting old kinda sucks but this makes it better. And hey s the new Prepping for the Red SoxOrioles game tonight Photo courtesy of Rich Chizmar. You should subscribe to CEMETERY DAN Love Samantha Mathis in THE STRAIN. She kicks ass. JerryRemy We gotta get there first Rem Dawg. Speaking of the good stuff how about Mel Gibson in BLOOD FATHER His best performance in years. Herman Koch is rapidly becoming one of my favorite writers. His novels taken together are like a killer EP where every track kicks ass. I dont know about the chicken man in Philly but the Red Sox certainly blew up the Yankees last night and I loved it. DavidMorrell BevVincent Congratulations linwoodbarclay I can relate. Reliable sources on Cthulus denail he is Trump Well its what he WOULD say isnt it If you dont know this little tune give a listen. Itll cheer up your day. Molly aka the Thing of Evil demonstrates what the world will look like after years of Trump foreign policy. Breaking News Reliable sources reveal that Donald Trump is actually Cthulu. The absurd hairdo isnt absurd at all. It hides the tentacles. CathyPegau mharvey Are you SURE youre alone in your house Congrats to Rick Porcello of the Red Sox MLBs first game winner. I have a button that says CANT SLEEP CLOWNS WILL EAT ME. Probably not true. But what if it was What if theyre just waiting EW ChrisNashawaty You talkin to me Because Im the only one here. Im going to see SULLY this weekend. After months of Donald Trump Im desperate for a real American hero. Im really sorry that TYRANT FX has been canceled. For seasons it made sense of an insane situation and in an entertaining way. Breznican Admit it you want to see THE SNURKS. Instead of holding Trumps feet to the fire Matt Lauer seemed to warm his hands at The Donalds celebrity glow. A poor showing. Darrell in THE WALKING DEAD and Vasily Fet in THE STRAIN The two coolest monster fighters on TV. LadyTrancy Happy Birthday Yep I just keep coming up with funky ass shit every single day. Im like Snoop that way. Sitting here with the headphones cranked listening to Grandmaster Flash and RUNDMC. IMHO just the way to ride Saturday night. Our governor Paul LePage is a bigot a homophobe and a racist. I think that about covers it. Molly The origin of evil. RT thebookdoctor Its NationalDogDay dogs are the magic which transform our lives I like this time of year to go to the movies. Some interesting smaller films show up. Going to see DONT BREATHE tonight. FinnSkata You go with your bad self. Kimberl Hmmm...maybe or . marykarrlit Amen sister. And all those gorgeous noir shadows. Molly aka the Thing of Evil prepares to eat the entire State of Maine. This takes villainy to a new level. THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD by Colson Whitehead Terrific novel of escape sacrifice and redemption. Reminded me a bit of Larry McMurtry. The most basic fact about Donald Trump If brains were black powder the guy couldnt blow his nose. Im excited for the IT move. Because we all float down here Georgie. And youll float too. Want a balloon Re THE GOOD WIFE I like Alan Cumming Eli. Always perfectly tailored but always looking like a cat who just got sprayed with a hose. seasons into THE GOOD WIFE its clear to me that LockhartGardner would go bankrupt without Kalinda Sharma. Shes their magic lamp. Good cover story in TIME about the growing culture of hate on the internet. Helps to remember TROLL rhymes with ASSHOLE. RT TomTaylor Traveller beyond lies MidWorld. DarkTowerMovie I bought a new mouse. Guess I dont have to retire after all. Gas prices Down. Employment Up. Inflation Down. Stock market Up.THANKS OBAMA This is a sad day. I got strawberry jam in my computer mouse. Now I have to retire. I hate wen I misspiel on Twiyder. Brendan Dassex supposedly Steven Averys accomplice in the rapemurder of Teresa Haibach has had his conviction overturned. SLADE HOUSE by David Mitchell Hard to imagine a more finely wrought and chilling tale of the supernatural. One of the rare great ones. From the Book of Republicans Lo we have many assholes running for President. Let us consider and pick the biggest. And so it was done. It took seasons but Alicia and Will finally got together. Is that a spoiler Who cares It happened years ago. Wait a minute. Just reading down my Twitter feed. Trump said WHAT Watching THE GOOD WIFE from the beginning. Into Season . God is it smart. All the women have this Mona Lisa thing going. GOP brainiacs wash their hands of Trump Drudge Report ignores it. Sen. Susan Collins says she wont vote for Trump. Drudge Report ignores it but posts old pic of HRC being helped up a flight of stairs. Molly aka the Thing of Evil takes a break from writing her st book THE DOGSHIT CHRONICLES. A sure beastseller. SarahPinborough Are you sure thats not a urine sample mate Double feature at my house. CHARLEY VARRICK followed by MR. MAJESTYK. With a Popeye cartoon. If you want to cool off this summer with a fine horror novel hunt up THE DEEP by Nick Cutter. Scary as hell and well written to boot. Could we agree at this point in the technology that the phrase flatscreen TV has become redundant I love TYRANT. If youre not watching kick your VOD in gear and start at Season . Molly aka the Thing of Evil and her Uncle McMurtry enact a play called THIS YEARS ELECTION. Another line I could do without hearing Could we have the room Or Walk with me. People rarely say that shit in real life. One line I thankfully didnt have to listen to in STRANGER THINGS Excuse me a minute I have to take this. KimFCoates That looks so nasty. Gimme some. I enjoyed Peter Careys wonderful novel AMNESIAnot least of all because it brought back memories of playing Zork. Dont vote for Trump even if you like him if he wont release his tax returns. Cant be President wo disclosure. RichardDooling Not to mention the friendly law enforcement. Bill OReilly wants you to know that the slaves who built the White House were wellfed. Thanks for sharing Bill. Molly aka the Thing of Evil discusses new forms of bad behavior with her Uncle McMurtry Joe Hills dog. Excerpt from Guns in the International Business Times. The gun people dont like it so I thought Id post. News for fundamentalist Christians If Jesus were around today hed turn Trump out with the rest of the moneychangers. NY Times report Trumps duds are made in China. Guess MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN doesnt apply to the clothing industry. A song of great social comment. RT jasonblum Pokemon GO Brady Hartsfield would love it. Ridley Pearsons new thriller WHITE BONE is in stores now. Perfect for summer. You couldnt do better. That wasnt a convention. It was something closer to a lynch mob. Republicans you should hang your heads in shame. One difference between Nixon and Trump when the Republicans nominated Nixon they didnt actually KNOW he was a crook. STRANGER THINGS Is it possible the Evil Man With the White Hair isnt dead Stay tuned. RT McConaughey Shake the hand that shook the world Simon amp Schuster booth Noon Ymight even get it SIGNED by Ms. Evans As Trump says Who the hell knows Hey kids Got my copy of CHARLIE THE CHOOCHOO by Beyl Evans straight from MidWorld Get yours SDCC Friday Speaking of the GOP convention I wish I had the ExLax concession. Never seen so many tight asses. I could retire. Melanie Trumps speech was plagiarized THANKS OBAMA The deal at the Republican convention appears to be this Glass bottles prohibited guns are OK. Welcome to the asylum. STRANGER THINGS is pure fun. A. Dont miss it. Winona Ryder shines. pattonoswalt Well said. NY TImes reports a general saying Americans are in denial about their gun culture. joehill As the recurring judge character on THE GOOD WIFE makes attorneys say In my opinion. Watching STRANGER THINGS is looking watching Steve Kings Greatest Hits. I mean that in a good way. Emmy Awards to major network TV As a serious artistic or cultural force you are dead to us. KristenGBaldwin BacheloretteABC Holy moly lookit that hair. Turn him upside down and slide him like a hockey puck I understand the presidential campaign is important but my God its so long until November. Whoever kills the innocent kills his own family. Presidential election Woman who can do the job now tied with an idiot who cant find his own ass with both hands and a flashlight. Wow. A truly terrifying pop music image Talk about your childhood wishesYou can even eat the dishes. I woke up with this in my head. Awful. My only question about the Netflix series STRANGER THINGS is whether or not it will be popular enough to crash their servers. It might be. Is it any wonder that most police support limited gun control Belated but heartfelt condolences to the families of those Dallas police officers killed in the line of duty. Its so great to have TYRANT back. Molly aka the Thing of Evil freed from jail. Certain feline witnesses disappeared. Molly says I know nothing. Im loving BrainDead. This is extremely rich political satire of both sides and a rather moving plea for a little bipartisanship. FBI to Clinton Youre careless.American voters to Crazy Uncle Don Youre clueless. ...and she believed it was the purrfect crime. freemolly Molly aka the Thing of Evil finally went too far. Jailed for stealing cat food. Third offense. No parole. After Brexit maybe Britain should go all the way and rename itself Boaty McBoatface. HBOs THE NIGHT OF is brilliant entertainment. Great acting and a great story by Richard Price. You should get on board for this one. Donald Trump has changed his mind says hes going to run for British PM instead. Take it back you guys take it back TAKE IT BACK. Exit polling said Britain would stay in the EU. A year from now youll find few people who will own up to having voted to leave. Molly aka the Thing of Evil rests contentedly beside the corpse of her latest toy. Gee looks like NOBODY killed Freddie Gray. Guess he just died of being black. Funny how that happens in this country. Paul Tremblays ubercreepy followup to A HEAD FULL OF GHOSTS is published today DISAPPEARANCE AT DEVILS ROCK. Dont miss this one. In America it is easier for a crazy person to get a gun than it is for a sick person to get pain medication. Screwed up priorities. Terrible news about Anton Yelchin crazily talented actor gone too soon. RT idriselba I am Roland son of Steven son of Henry true descendant of Arthur. And I have not forgotten. TheDarkTowerMovie Thanks to everyone who showed up today in Reno. Great tour for me. Thanks to all. Thanks to everyone who turned out last night here in beautiful Utah. We talked books movies and JellO. Thanks to everyone who turned out in Albuquerque last night and special thanks to George R. Rgt Martin who stole the show. Great time tonight in Tulsa. Thnka you guys. Thanks Iowa Thanks Nebraska God bless the Great Midwest Money from the Guns essay goes to the James Brady Organization to Prevnt Handgun Violence. They do NOT advocate outlawing guns. TheRunnerDad yes. Check out my essay Guns. Its a Kindle single. Cheap cents and more relevant than ever. The killing needs to stop. Thanks to all my Constant Readers in Louisville. Sorry about rthe rain but damn that was fun. Molly aka the Thing of Evil wishes she were on tour with me so she could eat snacks and bite a fan or two. Time to ban assault weapons. Thanks to everyone who came out tonight to the Ryman in Nashville. We had a good time didnt we Thanks to all the people who came out to see me last night in Ohio and tonight in West Virginia. Pretty cool. Thanks to everyone who turned out tonight at Sewickley Academy. You guys were great. Big thanks to everyone who came out tonight in Jersey. CIty. You guys were great. Congrats Republicans Youre about to nominate a thinskinned racist with the temperament of a yearold. meganeabbott BevVincent And when in doubt bring on the man with the gun. The wisdom of Raymond Chandler. Not too late to wish Joe Hill a happy birthday END OF WATCH is published Tuesday. Hope to see a lot of you guys on the tour Ali was the greatest not just a boxer but a Civil Rights icon. His mouth was big his heart and his sense of humor was bigger. GeekGasm Yes that might be it. Need to get a copy of that book. Thank you georgegiotsas Sadly no. bucksta No but thats a great one too. kathyannfarrel Yeah cant find it and hes written so many different books of poetry. chbluemonkey That ones a novel. revjfm No but thats a great one. megandanyus No but thanks. hoetry Nope thats not the one. Thanks though. Does anybody out there in Twitter Nation remember a Stephen Dobyns poem where everyone in town starts running like crazy Happy Memorial Day to all those who served and to all those who have lost loved ones in defense of America. Breznican Actually I get paid per tweet. Will get more I think if Crazy Uncle Don becomes prez The paradox of ka A wheel that always returns to the same place but always explores new territory as it rolls. Oh yeah and END OF WATCH coming out in a week or so. Thats also pretty good I think. Cant forget THE GIRLS by Emma Cline and freakin EVERYTHING by Sarah Waters. Oh and you might as well add Justin Cronins PASSAGE trilogy now that its complete. THE SECOND LIFE OF NICE MASON by Steve Hamilton THE NICEVILLE TRILOGY by Carsten Stroud. There. Summer reading problems solved. Joe Hills THE FIREMAN to debut at on the NY Times bestseller list. Way to go kid. All the love. Nice trailer for END OF WATCH coming next month. Each episode of THE WALKING DEAD is a bracing shot of nihilism. FEAR THE WALKING DEAD on the other hand just seems dour. Say heres an idea Lets turn Americas nukes over to a badtempered asshole with no knowledge of foreign policy. What could go wrong I thought my friend Jack Bender who directed so many great LOST episodes just turned in the episode of the year on GAME OF THRONES. KristenGBaldwin ...and who cares How do you know its a horror movie The cell phones stop working. One exception CELL coming soon. The And that ladies and gentlemen is how you pull off one hell of a season finale no pulled punches all killer no filler. For those of you thinking He Who Must Not Be Named will be playing the Crimson King in THE DARK TOWER...good guess but wrong. The Dark Tower is close now. The Crimson King awaits. Soon Roland will raise the Horn of Eld. And blow. So long Guy Clark. Great singer greater songwriter. Finally got off the LA Freeway buddy. Go with God. Heat up your spring reading with Joe Hills THE FIREMAN. It will spark your interest and charbroil your nerves. PRISON BREAK is coming back and I cant wait. More TBag. CBS news report on opioid addiction partially sponsored by a drug to help you shit when youre on opioids. What a world we live in. THE FIREMAN by Joe Hill published tomorrow. Extraordinary. Youll burn your way through it. OwenKingwriter joehill Thats a good one. Zing KimFCoates TheLandMovie Im there. BevVincent That Manchester mayor looks rode hard and put away wet. Those arent bags under his eyes those are steamer trunks Sometimes even a Thing of Evil needs a friend to sleep with. Congratulations to Paul Tremblay who just won the Stoker Award for A HEADFUL OF GHOSTS Told you it was good Molly aka the Thing of Evil trains her jaws for her keynote barkathon at the Republican convention in Cleveland. TiberiusRings No worries mate. LonelyRobots Great show is right. Whos your favorite character That was the best episode of THE . Clarke said she was sorry but you cant blame her this time. Anthrax hnky Get me some Anthrax Saturday night. You guys rock. Okay you guys are right. Sabbath and Priest on Sunday but I gotta throw in some Scorps just to balance the scales We Built This House. I believe Ill have a Heavy Metal Weekend starting with Slayer Sabbath and Motorhead. Saving Metallica amp Priest for Sunday. What can I say Driving people out of their minds comes naturally yo me. Just ask my wife. HAHAHAHA. David Ortiz is finishing his last season with all guns blazing. You dont have to love the guy especially Yankee fans but I do. If you missed you careless people know who you are its now available on iTunes. DocNish My bad. RT ZachTeam StephenKing Sarah Palin always sounds like a person you started a conversation with in a bar that you immediately regret it michikokakutani An oldie but a goodie. KimFCoates Go you Bolts MikeRJPage Been there done that. It aint the content vacuous though it may be its the delivery. Ted Cruz and Sarah Palinsublimely irritating political speakers. Listening to them is like having root canal surgery without anesthetic. Hey Repubs Its like they say in the antiques storesyou broke ot you own it. One more I think. Great series. Clarke to Luna Im so so sorry. Yeah like it was her fault. Good episode though. HEX by Thomas Olde Heuvelt A wicked witch holds an upstate New York town prisoner. This is totally brilliantly original. Tshirt idea for the Republican convention THE DEVIL MADE US DO IT VOTE FOR OMEN Love Benjamin Black. Wish hed write a supernatural novel. Theres a sense of the weird about his detective novels just under the surface. THE Man awfully late in the season for such a flashbackheavy episode. It was nice to see Bellamy grow up a little though. John Boehner on Ted Cruz I have never worked with a more miserable son of a bitch in my life. KimFCoates Go Tampa Lightning ALL THINGS CEASE TO APPEAR by Elizabeth Brundage Ghosts murder a terrifying psychotic who seems normal and beautiful writing. Loved it. Think youre gonna like it. Pretty cool movie coming in July. Please note Clarke did not say Im sorry on this weeks episode A SINGLE TIME PuddingBrains Sinclair of course. Emerson was an ungrateful butt. Todays best bumper sticker THE CLOSER YOU GET THE SLOWER I GO. THE Although one of my favorites died Emori continues to brighten the story. Luisa DOliverias smile always makes me feel happy. Prince was a musical genius straight up. His loss is huge. How good is HUSH Up there with HALLOWEEN andeven moreWAIT UNTIL DARK. White knuckle time. On Netflix. JerryRemy Im in Florida. You are blacked out. Damn you Rays RT shondi Cecile Richards A woman voting for Ted Cruz is like a chicken voting for Colonel Sanders. You know youre old when youre whistling Smoke on the Water and some kid asks you Whats that song While I dont like He Who Must Not Be Named it was great fun to see Ted Cruz take a pantsdown butt whuppin. Patton Oswalt is right about TV dinners. You shouldnt have to stir them halfway through. May I wax alliterative Stirring Stouffers sucks. In Linwood Barclays excellent FAR FROM TRUE mayor Randall Finley reminded me strongly of the late Rob Ford. Wonder if it was intentional. The sad but true mantra thats repeated over and over in THE There are no good guys. What I like best about THE is the strong feminist slant. No preaching just story. SaraLulliaBudro Well I was crazy about Lexa but I gotta say that Murphys a badass. Challenge for the writers of THE Get through Season without Clarke saying Im sorry more than say times. The Bellamy and Octavia take sibling rivalry to a whole new level. RT linwoodbarclay Dear FXNetworks please drop annoying popup ads especially during subtitles on TheAmericans. THE DARK TOWER movie is filming IT begins soon. Pretty cool. For shame Fort Lauderdale evicting Travis McGee and John D. MacDonald from Slip F to make way for another development. How shitty. Harlan Cobens awesome series THE FIVE starts on Sky April th. I got an advance look and loved it. pattonoswalt That blows my mind. North Carolina losing tens of millions of dollars over whos pissing in the next stall. This strikes me as a new high in insanity. Re THE You think Theyre not really gonna go there are they And then they do. On to Season . hllmlls Love Jack Finney. Have read everything. Great novels and his short stories are awesome. Totally hooked on THE . Harsh and propulsive. Molly aka the Thing of Evil hides from the FBI after stealing the mailmans bag of dog biscuits. Federal crime. MaryLynnRajskub Thats weird. I mean right Its weird. Like asking Why is a mouse when it runs KristenGBaldwin No but sometimes I give myself long soulful looks in the mirror when I have done something shitty. Is Extra Virgin Olive Oil like extra unique Just asking the question. BRIGHTON by Michael Harvey Helluva Boston crime novel. Helluva novel period. If you liked THE DEPARTED youll like this. Drops in June. linwoodbarclay Love it. Glad you liked it. Cant wait for BROKEN PROMISE. Loaded question I know How did you guys like the conclusion of Youre never alone...in THE CHOPPING MALL. Somehow missed a Best Picture nomination but check out the trailer. My wifes idea for a new cereal Pork Choppies little sugared cutlets with that BarBCue flavor. Mmmm splash on the milk and dig in If you liked GONE GIRL and THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN you might want to pick up THE WIDOW by Fiona Barton. Engrossing. Suspenseful. A lot of people found me in the photo. An amazing number pegged the guy who looks like the young Dean Koontz. The one with the shaggy hair. King Yup thats me. leannah Thats me. pixiemeat Sorry pixie meat you dont even win our home game. serefisch Me. BridgetCarpen Gold star for you crecenteb You got it. RPLobotomy I think you get a gold star. ucantexplainkat You get a gold star. Photos from the forthcoming book HEARTS IN SUSPENSION. Hopefully this fall. University of Maine after Kent State. A gold star if you can spot me among the protesters. For a better understanding of Cruz and He Who Must Not Be Named read ASSHOLES A THEORY by Aaron James now in paperback. Molly poses for her portrait after biting off the hand that feeds her. Painting by Matt McAllister. Damn you autocorrect I am CORNHOLIO Now wheres David Pecker Hehheh. Never mind Cornelio wheres David Pecker Hehheh. Oops. EVER have to shave. Must proofread Tweets. I am enjoying the first season of The but how come none of the young men stranded on Earth never have to shave Breznican Daphne did it. Never trusted her. JohnSamarron I love it. theparkland MikeJudge He said Pecker. Hehheh. Pecker get it The National Enquirer CEO is David Pecker. Where are Beavis and Butthead when we need them Denise I threw up on my glasses. Took me back to my drinking days. Extensive coverage of ISIS scumbuckets is like pumping oxygen into a housefire. They thrive on the coverage. BevVincent marysangiovanni Thats called Jumping the shark. KellyBraffet I dont have a green shirt or socks so ate Lucky Charms for breakfast. Yum Few things are better than an engrossing wellwritten story that doesnt try too hard to impress you. Rick Scott and Paul LePage the worst two governors in the US have now endorsed He Who Must Not Be Named. Moderate Repubs are blushing. Molly aka the Thing of Evil reacts with sadness when told He Who Must Not Be Named lost in Ohio. Of course the rallies held by He Who Must Not Be Named ARE reality shows often reminding me in a weird way of DUCK DYNASTY. I will say more people associated with reality shows have been injured this year than have been injured at political rallies. New episode of .. streaming on Hulu right now. Franco directed and knocked this one out of the park. In the film take on DEAD ZONE Martin Sheen plays He Who Must Not Be Named. In the film version of ALL THE KINGS MEN Broderick Crawford. Or ALL THE KINGS MEN by Robert Penn Warren published in the year I was born. Populist demagogues like He Who Must Not Be Named arent a new thing see THE DEAD ZONE published years ago. Molly aka the Thing of Evil prepares to catch and dine on her latest soccer ball. Saw CLOVERFIELD today with my posse. We had a blast. Its a killer thriller. Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark inAMERICAN CRIME STORY The performance of a lifetime. This is what the word bravura means. CoreyMark Yeah its a tough job but somebody has to do it. Glad you appreciate my wisdom. aaronpaul Indeed I will. Im a big fan. monroesballin Im looking forward to it. Molly aka the Thing of Evil enjoys an evening viewing Republican attack ads hopes for a CruzTrump cage fight. Happy Birthday to SF and fantasy legend William F. Nolan Republican debate The whole world is laughing at us. SOMEBODY SHUT THESE CLOWNS UP. ChrisNashawaty Totally true. Its like this pounding drilling headache that just wont stop. linwoodbarclay Robertson and a Booth Tarkington novel called The Magnificent Ambersonspure Americana. Conservatives who for years sowed the dragons teeth of partisan politics are horrified to discover they have grown an actual dragon. GeekyBooks neilhimself You should read all of Neils books but Id start with AMERICAN GODS. Me and my buddy George Romero the true father of the walking dead back in the day. Sorry about the first takescrewed up the link Dont blame me Im an old guy. Its official The man in black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed. DarkTowerMovie McConaughey IdrisElba New episode of .. streaming now on Hulu. Uncle Stevie says check it out. JimOwensII How about just a few people of color in there To make it look less like vanilla ice cream Republican tonedeafness at its goony best Marco Rubio condemns racism in front of an allwhite audience of supporters. Chris Rock killed the opening monologue. Terrific. The Republican determination to block a SCOTUS hearing is shameful and petty. Write your senator if hes up for blocking this okay Watching the rain fall outside and listening to Springsteen sing Janey Dont You Lose Heart. Its a good combination. Pols think we need background checks for Uber drivers not for people who buy guns. You cant make this stuff up. jodipicoult The town of Jodie Texas in was named for Jodi Picoult. I added an e to make it sound more s. Sorghum It could change our food situation from scary to hunky dunky. Man I love me some Eugene. Are you a communist Mr. Amberson In a year of remarkable TV COLONY is really something special smart suspenseful subversive...thoughtprovoking. Oh look A rabid coyote with bad hair won the South Carolina primary Please clap On .. this Monday Jake Epping visits The Kill Floor. Hulu. Check it out. You wont be able to look away. Lets celebrate the life of Harper Lee who wrote an American classic and helped her friend Truman Capote write another. Is this song really creepy or is it just me Over tweets. Molly aka the Thing of Evil says she will bite me if I dont stop. DeanMcKinney WalkingDeadAMC Very much. Sorry about Carls eye. BevVincent Thats fucked up. jkrowling BevVincent Join the club. Now must walk Molly aka the Thing of Evil. Shes hoping Timmys down the well. Justin Cronins CITY OF MIRRORS is fantastic. An incredibly satisfying conclusion to his vampire trilogy. To everyone who watched the debut of .. just one word THANKS. Oh and four more COME BACK NEXT WEEK The Witch scared the hell out of me. And its a real movie tense and thoughtprovoking as well as visceral. MABarrettWrites Thats great news. Thank you. The stupidest ugliest Presidential campaign in my entire life HOUSE OF CARDS meets SHARKNADO. donwinslow Connellybooks LeeChildReacher HarlanCoben And trust Stephen King. This book is the real deal. .. starts this Monday on Hulu. Buckle up for the ride. theoldehippie Oh God I forgot that one. Incredible book. Thanks for reminding me. FrenzyPurple You will. Rebecca Very freaky very wonderful. Want to check out the opening credits for .. Try this Okay so plenty of Ohio novels. Also plenty of corn. I mean theres PARADISE FALLS by Don Robertson but beyond that... Serious question here Other than the one about Winesburg by Sherwood Anderson has anyone ever written a great novel about Ohio KristenGBaldwin Only a veteran of REVENGE would have such insight. Bwahaha My favorite vintage paperback cover line Liz hit the gutter...AND BOUNCED LOWER Molly aka the Thing of Evil plays the game her way first you score then you eat the ball. JANE GOT A GUN A really good Western. Made me think of HOMBRE with Paul Newman. The only thing I missed in CITY ON FIRE was mention of NYCs protopunk group The Fugs. Id love to see a bio movie of those guys. You know people calling six coin flips in a row is far from impossible. Its every time. Approaching tweets I see. Must ration myself. Such a temptation to tweet about politics. You know blahblahblah. Nice interview with me in A bit old but still good. I actually sound articulate for a change. Breznican Oh snap Kliffoth Its like a great French novel...only like set in America and written by an American. mctrademarc Yeah any book pages long someone always says It needed an editor. I have personal experience. You want short watch TV. FkMyTweets Yes. Also THE TWELVE. Looking forward to CITY OF MIRRORS the final volume in the trilogy. Breznican This quacks me up. CITY ON FIRE by Garth Risk Hallberg Dickensian massively entertaining as close to a great American novel as this century has produced. A little tune you wont hear at any Cruz rallies or at those of He Who Must Not Be Named. Ted Cruz vs. He Who Must Not Be Named The unspeakable in pursuit of the reprehensible. busgirl Molly is all Corgi and all bad. Voters beware When you vote in rightwingers who believe government is the problem what you get istadaFlint Michigan. The thing shes chewing in the picture is the remains of an insurance salesmans right toe. The library ladies gave Molly aka the Thing of Evil a new bed. She has decided not to hurt them. Great big fun with John Grisham last night in Bradenton FL. Thanks to everyone who came. Raised for the library and had a blast. mycaptiveheart Do you really call that acting carlosdz Thats the one. I keep thinking about the characters on SONS OF ANARCHY. And missing them. pattonoswalt Dont even think it Im in the Academy but not eligible to nominate actors. Otherwise I would have tabbed Idris Elba and Michael B. Jordan. Great performances. So sorry to hear about the passing of Glenn Frey. Great songwriter great musician great talent. So sorry about the passing of Alan Rickman. Too young too young. Anyway good luck. If you win buy books. Lots of books. You can read them on your new yacht. Or while flying on your Gulfstream. Powerball Zillions of dollars generated by teenytiny slips of paper. American capitalism at its best. davidortiz You go with your bad self. RIP David Bowie. Great singer great innovator great style. linwoodbarclay Same here. Cool movie. Want the truth about El Chapo Follow Don Winslow. Roseanne Cash explains why Hillary Clinton should be our next prez. No one lives any closer than town. So no one will hear you if you scream. In the dark. In the night. Mrs. Dudley in The Haunting. What if dead people started tweeting That would be really scary. Think about it. Alone. With the lights out. Terrific chemistry between the two main characters. Im saving the third for a quiet rainy day. Loved the first Robert Galbraith novels THE CUCKOOS CALLING and THE SILKWORM. Terrific whodunitsclassicand the writing is wonderful. One must admit LePage has elevated assholery to a level far past the extraordinary and into a rarified sphere that might be termed divine. donwinslow Go with your bad self. Paul LePage DMoney Smoothie and Shifty come up to Maine amp impregnate white girls. Once more showing his sensitivity and intelligence. God bless President Obama for saying no one wants to repeal the nd Amendment just put small measures in place to lessen the carnage. You rarely get a cover that sums up how you felt and what you imagined when you wrote a book. This one does it. .. starts on February th Presidents Day. Its pretty awesome. KristenGBaldwin chuckecheese Jesus what are those RED THINGS Lots of new shows coming this month but dont miss THE COLONY on USA. Great premise fine acting. Great to see Josh Holloway LOST back. True nobility isnt being better than your fellow man its being better than your former self. Happy New Year from E. Hemingway. And me. Looking forward to THE CITY OF MIRRORS in the anxiously awaited conclusion of Justin Cronins PASSAGE trilogy. johncusack Merry Christmas John and many of them. I must tell the truth My friend Barbara gave her that ribbon. I DID give her a pat. rnluvsfootball itsmemallori Haha good one. But if she has presents hidden Im taking them away. No prezzies for the Thing of Evil. Molly sad to discover Santa doesnt bring Things of Evil presents. So I gave her this ribbon. Happy holidays you Twitterheads. Love amp peace to all of you even the NRA types and those willing to vote for He Who Must Not Be Named. ChrisNashawaty I think thats from BURNT OFFERINGS. How wonderful to see the talented Mike Vogel in CHILDHOODS END and working at the top of his game. The irony of THE AFFAIR is that Scott Lockhart wasnt really up to much anyway. Although his version of Rising Sun was pretty good. Molly aka the Thing of Evil declares The Year of Behaving Badly. Photo courtesy of Shane Leonard. The first episode of AMERICAN CRIME is available. Free on iTunes maybe other platforms too. This is exceptional stuff. Check it out. Talking about the Kennedy assassination on . Hey kids check out the new trailer for . Everything goes backward. Thats time travel for you. It strikes me that Mike Milligan FARGO and Vic Mackey THE SHIELD ended up in very similar circumstances. The perfect family attraction and just a few miles from that soft target known as Disney World Take the kids US Government is taking its sweet time about putting a woman on the bill. I vote for Rosa Parks. detompkins Love the tat jwynia I dig this. To me the color of the gunslinger doesnt matter. What I care about is how fast he can draw...and that he takes care of the katet. Lately my Diet Pepsi doesnt seem to be holding its carbonation. Hope He Who Must Not Be Named will address that if he becomes Prez. I can no longer tweet about Trump. That anyone in America would even CONSIDER voting for this rabid coyote leaves me speechless. CLOSE YOUR EYES The best Michael Robotham novel yet. Once I reached the last pages it really was impossible to put down. Obama just spoke with the voice of reason. Imagine that. is going to blow your minds. TomeScribe What he loves is the Donald. Donald Trump is like the crazy ranting uncle you hope your friends will never meet. If youre really stuck for Christmas presents why not give someone a few bad dreams I know a book with of them. Gee my mom always said God helps them that help themselves. Republican Prez candidates solution to mass shootings in America Prayer. Senate Republicans continue to make it easy for domestic terrorists to get semiauto weapons. If you disagree let them know. Ken Boothe. Check it out. We need sane gun and ammo laws. Its time for bipartisan hearings on how to do this while respecting the rights of gun owners. KristenGBaldwin Youre welcome. Always trying to do my part. The current episode of FARGO may be the best thing on TV in the last three years. Terrifying and hilarious. Earth is a Goldilocks Planet and like Goldilocks in the Three Bears house were eating all the food amp breaking all the furniture. KristenGBaldwin Love is also exchanging eyerolls with your wife while watching THE AFFAIR. Ive read Joe Hills forthcoming novel THE FIREMAN I happen to know the author. Its mindblowingly good. Save your nickels amp dimes kids. Molly aka the Thing of Evil rests after several hours of practicing with her homemade nunchuck. Body count in the first episodes of FARGO . Okay dere So much for Minnesota nice. Why did Humpty Dumpty have a great fall To make up for a lousy summer. Thank you ladies and gentlemen thank you very much. According to reports Robert Lewis Dear was using an assault rifle similar to an AK. Well see. In any case it wasnt a . revolver. No one wants to ban private gun ownership but the automatic weapons murders will continue until the NRA agrees to reasonable controls. Syrian terrorists in Colorado Oops just another crazy American with a gun. Bacon cheeseburger medium french fries chocolate milkshake natures perfect lunch. spkybuns Why didnt I think of that Google consensus on that question appears to be O.J. Simpson. Id go more for whoevers running ISIS these days. I asked Suri Whos the worlds biggest asshole Her answer Id blush if I could. Not helpful but diplomatic. As the late great Forrest J. Ackerman aka the Ackermonster would say HAPPY THANKSGRAVING If THE AFFAIR were my show it would turn out Noah is taking the rap for his headstrong daughter Whitney. Might it not be a good idea to make Election Day a holiday Wouldnt more people get out and vote KateySagal MegWolitzer I loved that book. No spoilers but the ending is a killer. The first trailer for . If I screwed it up check Hulu. Pretty cool. charlescwcooke RichardGrenell No risk The ZipLoc Baggie will keep the nasty foreigners out Well be safe janetney Less than of those to be admitted are males of combat age. Many of those are disabled. RT soundmigration This. Is. Brilliant. Thought of a quote preceding THE CUCKOOS CALLING when reading about Charlie SheenUnhappy is he whose fame makes his misfortunes famous. And would only cost like a zillion dollars. And lets build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico. Hey it worked in Berlin right New rightwing idea put America in a gigantic ZipLoc Baggie keep all nasty germy foreigners out Very sad to hear that P.F. Sloan died. Good singer fine songwriter. In addition to Eve of Destruction wrote for the Grass Roots. RIP. kafvautour THE DARK HALF is the favorite book of Molly aka the Thing of Evil. And then there was that terrible mugging when Peeta was robbed to pay Paul. RT mcelhearn StephenKing And if Peeta played the flute would he be Peeta Piper If Katniss Everdeens friend Peeta got blown up would the resulting crater be a Peeta pocket jodipicoult Ive read everything. bwadykstra The majority of muslims despise ISIS. uhseejed The point is you cant generalize from the behavior of one small radical group. Oxco Think you might be on the short end of this one. Hating all Muslims for what happened in Paris is like hating all Christians because of the gayhating Westboro Baptist Church. Just heard whats going on in Paris. Bestseller lists very small shit in comparison. God protect those in danger from armed lunatics. Thanks to all the Constant Readers who made THE BAZAAR OF BAD DREAMS a bestseller. MizzoniAlessio TheHungerGames Ill be there but not wearing that suit. jesslahey Thank you Hard to muster any sympathy for the selfindulgent Noah Solloway. THE AFFAIR only works for me as a social comedy with the occasional dramatic fillip. Just sayin. Drug companies spending millions to sell sleeping pills and to make sure American men can get it up after the Sunday NFL games are over. After months of viewing I think I can say with confidence that the evening network newscasts are basically drug pushers for Big Pharma. Watch AMERICAS FUNNIEST HOME VIDEOS with the sound turned off and a lot of clips look downright sadistic. Well yes. The Redskins. Point taken. Gee its a shame the Patriots cant win without deflating the footballs for Tom Brady. RIP Gunnar Hansen. Scared the shit out of me as Leatherface in person you never met a kinder man. Also like the Black Keys and My Own Holiday. Dont get me started. BOXofTITS When I get down in the dumps I usually go back to early Al Green the Staples Singers Wilson Pickett Booker T Otis. For instance Choctaw Bingo by James McMurtry and the Heartless Bastards. If Taylor Swift tried to do that shed explode. Plenty of rock and roll since but none of it gets airplay. Lou Reed said it best lead guitar rhythm guitar bass drums. No Molly doesnt look like a deer. Neither did our first dog a little black mutt who limped home with one of her legs shot off. Hunters. linwoodbarclay Yes A dinner jacket And she shows up in a French lace slip and then some kind of formal wear. And THEY NEVER GET DIRTY smilebucky Always Lovin Molly. And sometimes Quitthat. Molly wears her November collar which says Dont mistake me for a deer and shoot me Im really a Thing of Evil. I have a new Michael Connolly book to read and a new Eric Church album to listen to. Honey life is good. THE QUICK by Lauren Owen A terrific and terrifying novel of the undead in London. Completely involving impossible to put down. Molly aka the Thing of Evil reminds me I only had or so until I started putting up her picture. She wants steak dinners from now on. Great Caesars ghost as Perry White used to say. A million followers Im amazed. And a little scared to tell you the truth. joehill How about a GLOATtee Thats the unlucky person who gets gloated at. What scares me Live TV Nevertheless I must go on GOOD MORNING AMERICA tomorrow and flog my book. THE BAZAAR OF BAD DREAMS on sale Tuesday. Watch out for that bad little kid in the beanie with the propeller on it. Molly aka the Thing of Evil demonstrates the difficult yoga posture called My Ass Is Up. Happy Halloween all you boys and ghouls. Want to extend Fright Night THE BAZAAR OF BAD DREAMS is out next week. Just sayin. Incompetent GOP candidates no doubt but the questions they had to field were even worse. That debate was embarrassinga carny sideshow. Last nights debate was a dispiriting showcase of incompetence. Politics aside...do any of these candidates know what theyre doing goodreads RealCliveBarker Five years after Timmys sister drowned he found her standing in his closet. Her eyes were full of water. My chance to play DJ on a cool BBC radio show. Check it out. At least Molly isnt cute. Shes a Thing of Evil. Ate my wifes Arya Stark action figure. Internet has been down here but its up again now and guess what Same old shit Cute dogs starlets weird politics Somewhere in Chicago I hear a billy goat braying. The problem with religious fundamentalists of all stripes is the tendency to substitute superstition for spirituality. Molly aka the Thing of Evil celebrates her first birthday. Her plans for Year Two are well unspeakable. THE FINAL GIRLS is really great a sweet horror movie spoof that winds up feeling like MOONRISE KINGDOM. Not that I blame them. Ive seen some crazy baseball shit in my time but nothing like the current Blue JaysRangers game. Who said Canadian fans were polite AmeliaHeartwood Final Mr. Mercedes book in June. END OF WATCH. Its nasty but hey its what I do. THE BAZAAR OF BAD DREAMS my book of stories drops in weeks. Hope you like it and watch out for the monster car that opens the book. Go you Cubbies johncusack I hope not literally. There would be blood amp guts all over the field. Oh dear. ChrisNashawaty Pickle walks into a bar and says...aw never mind. You probably already read it in PLAYBOY. joehill Because M is pronounced Em giving it a vowel sound. As you well know. ChrisNashawaty Agreed. That was nasty. victorkiam Not burying the Jays rooting for them. But that was a baaaaad game to lose. We could be watching a Texas shootout for the AL championship. WS prediction Dodgers in over the Astros. Worth remembering Just having a penis does not allow you to be a dick. Too much good TV. Just got around to EMPIRE. God its great. The Peanuts crew visits Jerusalems Lot. Courtesy of Josh Boone. Fan Duel and DraftKings Skeevy from the jump. On the END OF WATCH cover Watch out for that pink fish. I wouldnt touch it if I were you. AmericanLance Yes I watched Whispers. BobbieMichele Yes Hannibal is an exception. After the last years of cable TV most network drama feels to me like a big helping of mashed potatoes on Wonder Bread. Very bland fare. Write your reps especially those who are in the NRAs pocket. Time to outlaw mags of more than eight bullets. Oregon shooter owned guns all legally purchased. Folks this has to stop. Molly aka the Thing of Evil has taken a pawson selfie for all her Twitter fans and forced me to post it. Or else. JonasSamuelle Darn. I TREASURED this one dude. Dasani Perrier and Poland Spring announce a plan to build a straw million miles long. Martian Springwater to go on sale in . DonOrsillo Youve been a big part of my life for a lot of years Don. Sorry to see you go wish you well. Big mistake by NESN. On the catch Mookie Betts made to end last nights SoxOs game the only other player I ever saw capable of a similar feat was Willie Mays. OwenKingwriter joshritter The shorts are terrific. And how about the cat that just kinda bops on through in the background Its National Punctuation Day Who the fuck knew Coming soon the Fryeburg Fair. I will eat many weird foods beginning with deepfried Oreos. I will pass on the deepfried stick of butter. Thanks to everyone who wished me a happy birthday Although I was born in Im gonna party like its Molly aka the Thing of Evil waits for her Official Taster to make sure her evening repast isnt poisoned. Australian comedian Jim Jefferies riffs on gun control. Teddy Cruz needs to watch this. THE GREEN INFERNO is like a glorious throwback to the drivein movies of my youth bloody gripping hard to watch but you cant look away. Molly aka the Thing of Evil waits impatiently for her chauffeur and bodyguard to take her to the Trump rally in NH. Autocorrect wanted to retitle Joseph Conrads NOSTROMO as NOSTRUM. Who invented this monster THE BLIND MANS GARDEN by Nadeem Aslam An eyeopening heartbreaking novel of the war in Afghanistan. Reminded me of Conrads NOSTROMO. THESE FINAL HOURS a film by Zak Hilditch Australian low budget hypnotic and absolutely wrenching. Available VOD. Recommended. Big Papi. Boom. Nothing more to say. linwoodbarclay Im with you on that one brother. They should leave an instruction manual. Thanks to everyone who congratulated me on Twitterthat was wonderful. And thanks to all the people who made it possible. Looking forward to being on the Stephen Colbert show next week. Genpop as in general population. I cant spell before AM. Kim Davis might change her mind if she was in gempop with the rest of the bad girls. Ya think Best line so far in NARCOS Can anyone in this country Colombia keep a secret Kim Davis has gotten exactly what she wanted martyrdom Lots of congratsthanks all. My heart is officially warmed. kingbird Thanks bro I guess Im going to be awarded the National Medal of Arts next week. Im amazed and grateful. Congratulations to all my fellow honorees claudiag Same goes back double. Thanks pingchongco meredithmonk DorisDukeFdn UMSNews NEAarts WhiteHouse POTUS And to you hydrostaticken Ha ha. God will get you for that. Just visiting with a friend from Derry Maine. If this doesnt get you up and shaking your ass on a Friday afternoon youre dead. Saw AMERICAN ULTRA last night and loved it. Fresh and exciting very cool. Cant figure out why it isnt a smash. ithildinlass Cats are generally more evil. At least thats what dogs think. ithildinlass When nothing happened after Sandy Hook there seems to be a feeling of defeat and exhaustion. Two killed by gun in Virginia on TV. Averages say that more went down by gun today for an average of a day. When do we say enough Don Orsillo no longer broadcasting Red Sox games Say it aint so NESN Dont let the summer go by without checking out THE NICEVILLE TRILOGY by Carsten Stroud. Its a real rocket ride. Molly and Vix not actually related. Vixen is years old. Loves my wife to death. Me she can take or leave. Molly aka the Thing of Evil rests up with her sister Vixen aka the Thing of Good. Im going to see SINISTER tomorrow. I loved the first one found it genuinely disturbing and extremely well acted. Searching personal property at the movies is OK but enacting minimal gun laws isnt. Man thats fucked up. joehill Hope go day. Using a colored rope Molly aka the Thing of Evil demonstrates how she deals with door to door salespeople. It was a travel day for me and I never got around to answering any questions. But theres always next Thursday. A HEAD FULL OF GHOSTS by Paul Tremblay Scared the living hell out of me and Im pretty hard to scare. Ive seen DIVERGENT and am moving on to INSURGENT. Next up DETERGENT. Republican Presidential candidates in If Obama is elected gas will be at a gallon in two years. On the subject of great summer reads LAST WORDS by Michael Koryta. You cant put this baby down. Lots of funny insurance commercials on TV these days but the yucks stop when you actually file a claim. Oh and great pix by Nancy Ahn. See its a graphic novel. Grossly funny. INTRO TO ALIEN INVASION by Owen King and Mark Jude Poirier coming next month. Great stuff. Not yet saying that because Owen Kings my son. I cant answer any more Qs today. I have to make sure Molly aka the Thing of Evil didnt just kill the FedEx man. NicolinaTorres My favorite Tabby book is ONE ON ONE. JCRoets I thought the Thing of Evil was cute. Little did I know. StephenKingBR Id love to see Brazil but its not on the current horizon. DylanReid Im too old to start another long cycle of novels. dlpphoto Start her with THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON. LaBombeH Im reading LUCKIEST GIRL ALIVE by Jessica Knoll. Only pages in hard to tell how good it will be but the woman is witty. dicksot rjacz My bod is a notattoo zone. LaBombeH Id be a longhaul trucker. JArthurMerritt Sue Snell from CARRIE is a registered nurse in Castle Rock. Best last line from one of my books A tossup between CHRISTINE and THE STAND. Best last line from someone elses EAST OF EDEN. StepanovAnna Nope. I dont care what they call me as long as they dont call me late for dinner. The decision to let Drill go in the most recent episode of THE WHISPERS is a plot absurdity. That development doesnt creak it screeches. On Thursdays from now on Im going to answer Twitter Qs. At least until I get bored and take the Thing of Evil out to play. tamahome Yes the female lead actually does wear yoga pants. Very nice gray ones. Do you have something against yoga pants Give yourself a gift and go see THE GIFTa perfect little gem of a suspense movie. Added bonus no characters wear Spandex suits. Donald Trump There hasnt been a novelty act this annoying since Alvin and the Chipmunks. joehill parisreview When the writer disappears you cant see him. Or her. KellyBraffet Oooo I love it Good cover great book. Hows this for a Trump campaign slogan IF YOURE WHITE YOURE ALL RIGHT ANY OTHER HUE I DONT TRUST YOU. THE WHISPERS is lots of fun but I wouldnt mind hearing Drills side of the story. Im sure he has one. Molly aka the Thing of Evil has found her soulmate. Next year on AMC THE JOGGING DEAD. Sometimes I cant help myself. How about a novel featuring a man whos always late Thinking of calling it GO SET YOUR WATCH MAN. I am Molly the Thing of Evil. You will not see me coming. linwoodbarclay No. Cities must be destroyed in superhero movies and elderly Alist stars must play sinister rich dudes. NY press vilifies Tom Brady while heaping praise on ARod. How soon they forget. gjdevlin The release date isnt set but get your Hulu on and get ready. Me along with a couple of friendsJames Franco and JJ Abramson the set of . Everything looks cool. Classic TYRANT line You are relieved of your command General. Americans can find an earthlike planet lightyears away but can do nothing about the plague of guns in our own country Thats insane. TheRook Molly was spayed a month ago. The thought of the Thing of Evils children roaming to earth...too horrible to contemplate. I was so amused I forgot to post the picture. Molly aka the Thing of Evil delivers pain to her Cone of Shame. Im enjoying the hell out of TYRANT. Onefiftieth the budget of GAME OF THRONES but it still packs an admittedly low budget punch. AndrewPetro Have you ever tried Moxie Its like drinking the worlds nastiest cough syrup. A man could surely teach a dog to give the Hitler salute but that wouldnt make the dog a Nazi. It would however make the man an idiot. beeDfraz Molly aka the Thing of Evil thinks Charlie is just her type. They could wreak havoc together. Breznican He looks more like a retired drivein projectionist to me. BAD COUNTRY by CB McKenzie Terrific crimesuspensemystery novel but the real revelation is his fresh and original voice. My favorite is Frank Darabonts THE MIST. WeekendRock Molly aka The Thing of Evil flashes a sinister smile after torpedoing the caninefeline peace talks in London. Someone dug up F.W. Murnau And stole his head What the fuck is up with that Bumper sticker idea IM ONE OF TRUMPS CHUMPS. Jesus how do I come up with these Just lucky I guess. Wowitsme Yep and there is no gravity the earth just sucks. seangerace Another very cool idea. I love it. seangerace Will Patton reading PET SEMATARY would be awesome but I have to get him to do the rd book of the Hodges Trilogy first Trump The raging id of the Republican Party Great signing yesterday at the Magic Lantern in Bridgeton Maine. Thanks to everyone who came. Love you guys. Watch the critics clobber GO SET A WATCHMAN. Thou shalt not monkey with our scared literary cows. For the rest of us you go girl The way Don Winslow writes is the way its supposed to work you pay fifteen bucks and get fifty bucks worth of story. Gotta like that. THE POWER OF THE DOG and THE CARTEL by Don Winslow Im totally swept up. You cant ask more for emotionally moving entertainment. I am going to order that novel EENY MEENIE. Molly aka the Thing of Evil considers unleashing her battalion of zombie Irish Wolfhounds on Vermont. My Jawbone UP is fun and interesting but doesnt seem to work on the treadmill. Registered minutes as minutes. Whats UP with that Sometimes a song crystallizes everything you feel. For me one of those songs is Mercy Now by Mary Gauthier. I did NOT call on Paul LePage to resign. I called on him to either go to work or go back home. Paul LePage has become a terrible embarrassment to the state I live in and love. If he wont govern he should resign. Dennis Lehanes WORLD GONE BY is the best gangster novel since THE GODFATHER. Terrific story shattering conclusion. magiciansbook One of my favorites of the year. Pearlspet Thank God crazy people can still get guns. Now THATS American You can marry whoever you want You can get affordable health care What in Gods name is this country coming to Molly aka the Thing of Evil tries to convince me she is a Thing of Good. I am not persuaded. Hope youll join me UNDER THE DOME tonight because as Judy Garland once said Theres no place like Dome. Actually I said that. Molly aka The Thing of Evil surveys the forest primeval and finds it strictly secondary. So jaded for one so young The Confederate flag flying over a state capital is disgusting but its a sidetrack. The real problem comes with a shot clip. A great film noir line in the new Joseph Finder novel THE FIXER She had a body harder than Chinese arithmetic. According to Bloomberg Business gun deaths will exceed traffic fatalities in America this year. Cant put a seatbelt on a semiautomatic. Too many closed minds on gun control. Worse far too many PROUDLY closed minds. Meanwhile the American shooting gallery remains open. Until responsible gun owners support responsible gun control laws innocent blood will continue to flow. How many times must we see this Mike Hales analysis of the GoT finale in the NY Times is breathtakingly wrongheaded. Most of what he objects to is in the most recent book. GAME OF THRONES finale that was...was...let me just say it was not what I expected. goodreads HuffPostBooks You better read a fuckload more than before you turn . The Red Sox not content with having hit bottom fell into the basement last night versus Toronto. RIP Christopher Lee. He was the King of the Vampires. FINDERS KEEPERS bangs the bestseller list at . How cool is that Okay the Dannemora break was a bit like Shawshank. Sometimes life imitates art thats all. Except these are bad bad boys. So good to see Dee Wallace in THE WHISPERS...and as beautiful as ever. Molly aka The Thing of Evil enjoys a box of Raisin Bran. Besides being a good action movie and a fractured fairy tale CHAPPIE is a surprisingly sharp satire of thug life. Loved CHAPPIE. Its like a childrens story written by an extremely talented psychopath. Thanks to everyone who bought FINDERS KEEPERS yesterday and said nice things. helloherman That makes my day. Wish Joe Hill a happy birthday And if you buy one of his books today YOU get the present FINDERS KEEPERS published tomorrow. Im stoked. The book in the picture is THE MAN IN THE PICTURE by Susan Hill. The Thing of Evil mustnt eat it. Its too good. RogerMcGuinn Molly is a Thing of Evil. cjr Yes indeed. msdodgrblu Nightmares are a sign of imagination. Keep dreaming. Molly aka The Thing of Evil examines my reading material and decides to eat it for lunch. Maine governor Paul LePages latest tantrum Repeal the state income tax or Ill hold my breath until I turn blue. Jesus grow up. vickihendricks sarahw meganeabbott LauraMLippman I have a cat fur tie but have to wear it only on special occasions. It will unravel. joehill I must learn the secrets of the Goat People. I found the premiere episode of WAYARD PINES outrageously entertaining. Matt Dillon is terrific. aquilacorvus Molly aka The Thing of Evil tried to mail order a suitcase nuke. Dogs are so stupid. She tried to get it from WalMart. The remake of IT may be deador undeadbut well always have Tim Curry. Hes still floating down in the sewers of Derry. Hard to be scary in characters but not impossible. Have you checked behind your shower curtain lately TOMORROWLAND underperformed. Im starting to think PG is box office poison teens arent interested. Animated films are an exception. magiciansbook and he doesnt look a day over . marykarrlit I love this. But what if the mouse is like Rambo Rodent Spotted in an airport bathroom. I never thought of it this way but it makes sense. I think. If Rene Descartes were alive today hed probably say I tweet therefore I am. Molly aka The Thing of Evil is also a cockadoodie brat. Cant say more. Shes in the room. And listening... NickolasMyers I love that. If you liked MISERY youre probably going to like FINDERS KEEPERS. Some fans are just cockadoodie brats. Molly aka The Thing of Evil looks west plotting her conquest of New Hampshire. Come back tomorrow folks Ive got knockknock jokes up the wazoo. BilginerG Well gee. It made ME laugh but my brain got put on a little crooked. Didnt work for you huh the difference between an onion and a bagpipe no one cries when you chop up a bagpipe. Best wishes to Microwave Dave down there in Alabama. Keep rocking that Bo Diddley beat. Almost time to go back UNDER THE DOME. I cant wait. KatyaPadalko Yes Ive thought about picking up the FIRESTARTER story for years. Charlie McGee would be all grown up now. When writing narrative prose you must never start a paragraph with the phrase Little did I know. Im not much on Meanwhile either. Not a fanbased comment believe me. Its just so out of proportion I couldnt believe it at first. The punishment imposed on the Patriots is ludicrously overblown comparable to horsewhipping a child for drawing on the wallpaper. How about a story about a movie so funny people literally laugh themselves to death Id read that. In fact I should probably write that. joehill When you stay for the second show the ending is entirely different. While on the subject of books HYACINTH GIRLS by Lauren Frankel. Havent read it but Im going to. Looks great. The new Sarah Lotz novelDAY FOUR is really good. USA edition comes out June . Its the cruise ship from hell. Breznican Beautiful family. Molly aka The Thing of Evil ruthlessly hunts down the Purple Dinosaur of Decency and crows over its dead body. Molly demonstrates the Thing of Evil Workout also known as the Who Gives a Shit About Muscle Tone Workout. We live in a political worldWhere mercy walks the plank. Dylan speaks the truth. Thanks to everyone who congratulated me. Im touched. Ruth Randells death is a huge loss. So sorry to hear she passed on. MR. MERCEDES won the Edgar for Best Mystery Novel of . What a thrill joehill Thanks Joe. THE BORDER by Robert McCammon Riproaring oldschool SF. Mean aliens heroic earthlings. Subterranean Press. Late May. I dug it. KimFCoates Go Bolts And yes Im bingeing. Sue me. I love that show. THE AMERICANS Episode Divestment What was up with that pin Martha was wearing Looked sort of like Rudolph Nureyev. I need to see the Rolling Stones this summer. It must happen. badgarrett CRIMSON PEAK is terrific. Probably spoiled me for others at least for awhile. isvbella Yes THE BABADOOK I tried to order the book for a few little kids I dont like. SoCalRamen DARK TOWER would probably get made quicker if they added some superheroes. ThatCharlieGuy Yeah HOUSE OF THE DEVIL Forgot that one. And the LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT remake. Molly aka The Thing of Evil considers the universe and finds it wanting. Cronenbergs THE BROOD. THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. INSIDIOUS. Something like that. THE CHANGELING. THE DESCENT. A really cool remake of IT. Im ODd on superhero movies. Would like a really scary horror movie. Seeing UNFRIENDED next week so maybe that one. KerstinFoster So sorry to hear it. I enjoyed BETTER CALL SAUL and know its supposed to be a boutique series but on the whole I like AMERICAN CRIME much better. Greg Stillson in Cronenbergs version of THE DEAD ZONE The missiles are flying. Praise God. Cruz Paul and Rubio all running for President. Hey I thought I was supposed to write the horror stories. daveparke Zoey looks TOTALLY evil. EricEMcClure God those eyes Molly aka The Thing of Evil spends an afternoon thinking up new acts of wickedness. CVitrey Dark blue. Beige interior. Sunroof. Breznican MarkHarrisNYC Ill get that wascally wabbit And heyit aint boasting if its the truth. My Tesla is the S modelPD. Ill push it harder next time. There was no tire chirp on takeoff. It just goes like a bat out of hell.. brtalscks Nope. Sorry I missed you. screwball Thanks. That works then. DMasonWest I think maybe the Tesla will be around. I sure like mine. We fuel with solar panels so the gas is free. Whee Took my Tesla out to a dragstrip last week and ran the mile. MPH to in seconds. Like driving an XWing fighter. And yes I realize its a prequel. But I never saw family cartoons on the back windows of cars until about . BETTER CALL SAUL Episodes What the hell year is this The person who said basketball is boring has probably never watched holes of golf on TV. Duke. Indianas Religious Freedom Restoration act is gay discrimination pure and simple. You can frost a dog turd but its still a dog turd. Lew WalkingDeadAMC Tomorrow on iTunes. Is this cool or what Elle King no relation. rickiexplosion I love my Thing of Evil. Cant help it. Molly aka The Thing of Evil tries out Bed after mostly devouring Bed . The Rainmakers are better than ever. Bob Walkenhorst rules. No apology from Governor LePage. Some guys are a lot better at dishing it out than taking it back. Governor Paul LePage implied that I dont pay my taxes. I do. Every cent. I think he needs to man up and apologize. But for me the best line in any movie that Ive seen is still Heres looking at you kid. I choke up every time. Thanks to the guy who told me SHAWSHANK is the CASABLANCA of my generation man. The credit goes to my man Frank Darabont. CRIMSON PEAK electrified me in the same way Sam Ramis EVIL DEAD electrified me when I saw it for the first time way back in the day. Was treated to a screening of Guillermo del Toros new movie CRIMSON PEAK this weekend. Gorgeous and just fucking terrifying. Looks like FINDERS KEEPERS the new Hodges book is almost ready. Out in June. Better than the first one I think. Comcast down all day. When the network crashes everyone pisses and moans. When it works everyone takes it for granted. Human nature man. If you know a longhaul trucker thank him or her for keeping the country moving through this hellish winter. Those drivers are heroes. Did you notice that when Rick shaved off his beard he didnt look crazy anymore Kind of disappointing. TV magic Rick WALKING DEAD Grimes shaves off his beard in seconds. No nicks. And characters in New York always find parking spaces. hayleeeibl Cool dog Is heshe a Thing of Evil Molly aka The Thing of Evil enjoys a box of Kleenex. Thats a on the Yoohoo. Might have some fried pork skins on the side. You know go totally crazy. On tomorrows menu FrancoAmerican spaghetti and Wonder Bread. Because sometimes you just gotta go with the good old stuff. liamkelly If Hines why show Barclay the dollar after the case was closed Not saying youre wrong exactly just asking the question. Im seeing a lot of love for that story. As always Im delighted. And sort of amazed. I might have something to say about it next week. Jewl I love that Ive got a story in this weeks NEW YORKERA Death. Hope youll check it out and tell me what you think. Best line in the extraordinary OLIVE KITTERIDGE For Gods sake Henry you could make a woman sick. Thats my Olive Republican Sen. Roy Blunt on voting against funding Homeland Security Most of the employees will show up anyway. Good one cheapskate. Talk about road rage. Another fun bumper sticker DONT LIKE MY DRIVING DIAL EATSHIT. Oh also to kidnap earth women and repopulate their dying planet. Okay Mystery Tunnel solved. A wormhole kind of thing. Aliens were going to use it to watch tennis at the Rexall Centre without paying. linwoodbarclay MooreintheAM newstalk Mysterious tunnel Wait wait WHAT mysterious tunnel I must know more. Saw a bumper sticker today an oldie but a goody HORN BROKEN WATCH FOR FINGER. Man I cracked up. Devil in Me by My Own Holiday. Boy this cooks. SecondFirsts Yes because Im in Florida. Lisa at four inches an hour plus blowing and drifting we have officially labeled Poop a real shitstorm. Winter Storm Neptune Octavia next. How about Winter Storm Poop after that Poop is moving east with hurricane force winds I like it. Honey Badger dont give a shit about Valentines Day. But I like it. meganeabbott OwenKingwriter What a great picture Is that Clark Gable or do my eyes deceive me James Franco is going to make a great Jake Epping. Hes perfect for the part. Saddened to hear of David Carrs death. One of my favorite Times writers andI believea Friend of Bill. Molly celebrates her fourth month in the world wild with excitement. Nah just chilling in da house. Reading the last book in Carsten Strouds horrorsuspense NICEVILLE trilogy THE RECKONING. Out in August. Good God what an achievement. Brian Williams Suspended months. George Dubya Chemical weapons in IraqEEK per year in pension benefits. America kids. Little lie Brian Williams suspended. Big lie G. Dubya gets his own presidential library. Moral go big or go home. JuliaMarkD Ouch Liane right. Its late here. A bad time to be on Twitter. He Cruz also has this SAD look like those bigeyed waifs in the velvet paintings. Dont mean to rap on him but its a little weird. To me Ted Cruz looks like a revival preacher on late night cable. I guess they like that in Texas. Trivia Night is the climax of BIG LITTLE LIES by Linda Moriarty. Its a hell of a good book. Funny and scary. She nails the feuding moms. I think it takes too long to get to Trivia Night. Those of you who know what Im talking about raise your hands. And tomorrow SpongeBob. Whats not to like about THAT Life is good. BLACK SEA with Jude Law treasure hunters in an old leaky sub trying to salvage a fortune in Nazi gold. Jeez whats not to like Superbowl Sunday followed in many cases by Hangover Monday. Thanks to everyone who turned out in Bradenton last night. I had a great time amp hope you did too. I love it when politicians put on their storm clothes like theyre going to fire up a plow and work all night on the turnpike. STORM OF THE CENTURY Give me what I want and Ill go away. Hehhehheh. FlaccidBear Thanks THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN by Paula Hawkins really great suspense novel. Kept me up most of the night. The alcoholic narrator is dead perfect. Id be outraged about Deflate Gate if the final score had been but Get over it. Im dismayed about Ruth Rendells stroke. I hope you guys will spare a good thought for her. Her books are simply amazing. messynotebook Say XLIX with an Aussie accent and it sounds even MORE like a cure for constipation. Its the true gen mate. PriscilaBargas Beautiful tat. Superbowl XLIX or Super Bowel Say it out loud and it sounds like a cure for constipation. Try it and see. blondeanarchy Gotta wait it out man. Wait it out and keep writing. To borrow a s aphorism about Nam killing for religion is like fucking for chastity. Loved Jo Rowlings response to Rupert Murdoch. The man proves being rich does not vaccinate against stupidity. karenfrankies Its really creepy but weirdly funny dont you think Two words Pats rule. AMERICAS NEW CONGRESS looks like the same old shit to me. EmilkaArt Thats a really great picture. I love it. The difference between an onion and a bagpipe nobody cries when you chop up a bagpipe. Killing cartoonists to honor the Prophet takes dumb to a new and sublime level. Hey idiots the Prophet can take care of biz on his own. Finishing THE PAYING GUESTS by Sarah Waters. Awesome fullbodied novel. Its like shes saying Hey dudes this is how you do it. I cant believe how many bad TAKEN jokes Ive seen since yesterday. I was TAKEN ABACK. Im ready for a fresh shot of Liam Neeson. Ill be in the third row of the neckbender seats this Friday. Mr. Projectionist crank da sound Meet the new year same as the old year. Wouldnt it be nice to go a month or two wo anything too horrible happening Would have thanked more people but you know Twitter. Short. But thanks to the restaurant guys and the bartenders and the...oops out of w A special Yo and Thanks to all the peoplenurses cops firemen power plant guys to name a fewwho are working this Christmas day. HAPPY HOLIDAYS TO ALL AND TO ALL A GOOD FRIGHT Soon Sandy Claws will come creeping down yer chimney yellow eyes gleaming. For Kim Jong Un a comedy movie and a new hairdo etakotoole Great tat authorsahunt Go ahead. I poached it from Patrick OBrian. It all goes around doesnt it magiciansbook Looks like breakfast to me Hey is that straw maybe made out of bacon SalmanRushdie neilhimself PENamerican You tell em Frequently heard on the REVIVAL tour You scare the shit out of me Can I have a hug Peoplegotta love em. Antonella Thanks Bottom line North Korea doesnt get to win. Malls are afraid of losing business before Christmas. Understandable. So open the movie in January when the malls are almost deserted. Theaters showing INTERVIEW could post a clear warning sign in their lobbies VIEW AT YOUR OWN RISK. It works at amusement parks right DEADLINE editorial freedom of expression should only be defended when lives are not at risk. I think the Founding Fathers would disagree. So if ASCENSION has been going on for over half a century where are the old people I expect THE INTERVIEW to turn up online. Because dig it you can knock the rock but you cant stop the rock. safetynazi Good point. Like Fox Mulder I want to believe but it keeps getting harder to know what to believe. Go on tell me what you think. Im flummoxed. How much of the decision was about keeping moviegoers safe and how much just corporate bullshit Sonys decision to pull THE INTERVIEW is unsettling in so many ways. Good thing they didnt publish THE SATANIC VERSES. linwoodbarclay Man I hear that. mizmks Yes Molly is a Corgi. barroni Puppys name is Molly. My new puppy chews up a Santa hat. Good idea. Hes the guy who wrote THE IRON WILL OF SHOESHINE CATS. Also awesome. And a really cool title. Oh and on the subject of booksTHE LIE by Hesh Kestin. Awesome. It reminded me a little of the best plot twists in HOMELAND. CarolineKepnes Totally original. Never read anything quite like it. Hope youre working on a new one. Its been an excellent December for reading at least in my world. Misspelled her name. Kepnes. Oh I just hate that. YOU by Caroline Kepnis Hypnotic and scary. A little Ira Levin a little Patricia Highsmith and plenty of serious snark. Cool stuff. Debdiego Big smile. magiciansbook Either THE LAST ONE LEFT or THE END OF THE NIGHT. RandomShawness Yes. I read it and liked it. Havent gotten to the followup though. So much to read so little time. danielnivy I havent decided which show was the best but it was a great year for TV. I did love me some FARGO gotta say that. If you liked THE MIST try DARKNESS ON THE EDGE OF TOWN by Brian Keene. Excellent short horror novel. Still chewing over the last seconds of the GRACEPOINT finale. Jax before starting his last ride I got this. Jax Teller and Elvis TCB to the end. Great finale. carleylovesyax I love ur taste. Honey badger STILL dont give a shit. magiciansbook Quite possibly SMILED him to death. tinotinez Men and women. Rebelyellah I felt sorry for the PM. At least the pig was sedated. How much Viagara do you think the PM had to swallow The mind boggles. klbauthor In my version the three blind mice come back from the dead to exact horrifying revenge on the farmers wife. REVENGE OF THE RATS. charltonbrooker I hope there will be more. Theres nothing like it. jabellpepper Man we had fun. You shoulda been there Loved BLACK MIRROR. Terrifying funny intelligent. Its like THE TWILIGHT ZONE only rated R. Spoilers mostly outrage spoiled people. As my th grade classs Tuff Grrl used to say If ya dont like it dont look. ACDC still awesome still the best. eastriver Seriously. Of all the tired seasonal songs the one I dread most is those dogs barking out Jingle Bells. What asshole thought that up More amp more I believe the secret to successful writing is strong brewed tea. OmarjSakr After seeing the movie I dont want that book in my house THE BABBADOOK Deeply disturbing and highly recommended. You dont watch it so much as experience it. but some things dont change TV ads for cleaning products show only women using them. Hello men dont vacuum Wake up Madison Ave. linwoodbarclay Wait Wait Dead Wife Walking linwoodbarclay The Good Walking Dead Wife Yeah any network would green light that AudreyJolivet Bonjour BooksAMillion in South Portland yesterday Great staff great store cool customers. Thanks to everyone who turned out in the rain amp slop Big thanks to everyone who came out to hang with me in NY Washington KC Wichita and Austin. You guys are the greatest. Great start to the GHOST BROTHERS tour last night minute standing O. On to Toronto November th Tix for GHOST BROTHERS still available in Toronto Baltimore and DC I think. Hint try Groupon. MyMelody RealOldHouswife Noah and Alison are having an affair in a Showtime series called obscurely enough THE AFFAIR. For a married people having an affair Noah and Alison seem incredibly indiscreet. Nimbu Whatever dude. JakeEppingJFK Good one Looks like I need to wash my hair but otherwise very cool. You know that hospital Beth woke up in I wonder if they take Deadicare. LitTeachKennedy Thats because she never sat on them. Bill Belichick was his usual jovial laughing self after the Pats win yesterday. Wild and crazy guy Cant stop laughing Huge amounts of snow in Maine yesterday Republican voters should probably stay home tomorrow safe amp dry HAHAHAHAHA. Nine days until REVIVAL. Better buckle up. idacalla Thank you so much. You made my day. Happy Horrorween everybody and watch out for Pennywise and Twisty Theyre trickortreating together this year Im always bummed out on the day baseball goes back into hibernation. If a candidate approves or refuses to repudiate a vile negative ad what kind of rep would heshe make anyway Smack em down. Before voting next week why not make a list of the vilest negative ads and vote against those people no matter what party. Episode of GRACEPOINT Anybody got any idea of whats up with the blank clock faces in the police station GHOST BROTHERS tour Billy Burke from TWILIGHT Gina Gershon Carlene Carter more. Good acting and singing troupe. And BTW go see HORNS as a warmup. GHOST BROTHERS OF DARKLAND COUNTY is on tour as of . Lots of cities. Check it out amp go if you can The new Rancid album HONOR IS ALL WE KNOW is a postpunk classic. Streaming free too. Very cool. Its going to rain tomorrow th day in a row but I dont care. Ive got the new John Grisham. Life is good. Speaking of zombies wont they eventually fall apart Are they not like biodegradable KellyBraffet Breznican Right on. BRUTAL YOUTH is terrific. THE WALKING DEAD last night less talk please especially the heavily portentous kind and more zombiekillin. Creeper So YOU were that kid Ive been looking for you... Oh and how about a hand for Olympia Dukakis and Joan Jett They killed it. Thanks to all of you who watched BIG DRIVER and tweeted good things. Or that you were scared. Im fine with that. Big Driver tonight at Eastern. Maria Bello is amazing. Hopefully this film will start conversations. shanewalshy WALKING DEAD was great. The first minutes were mindblowing. Tracifer Yeah right FEMA Aiding the alien invasion. Only Mulder and Scully can save us. Hard to trust the CDC with vampires overrunning New York on THE STRAIN. kseniaanske Eeek Crushed by books Maine Governor race I voted for Eliot Cutler last time. This time a vote for Cutler is a vote for LePage. Bad idea. Loved the season premiere of AMERICAN HORROR STORY. Bet Ray Bradbury would have too. Be warned BIG DRIVER is authentically terrifying. Holy shit America TWIN PEAKS is coming back next year to Showtime Agent Dale Cooper will drink more coffee WonninoDD I apologize to the pigeons. prodigypunk DCComics I like it. Superman battles Pennywise the Clown. And Pennywise lives in a cave made of Kryptonite. PeterGermany Go for it RESISTANCE IS FUTILE AndrewBesson HAPPY BIRTHDAY Me and Joe Hill together on iTunes Crazy cool A GOOD MARRIAGE the little movie that could thanks to all of you who ordered it. on the iTunes store. Incredible. My sons film HORNS is ALSO available via VOD today. Father and son movies HOW COOL IS THAT A GOOD MARRIAGE is in theaters and available on VOD today. Check it out and I hope you dig it. A GOOD MARRIAGEtomorrow. Im stoked. But...Tig and Venus my head exploded. SONS OF ANARCHY Fuckin epic. OwenKingwriter I had to go away. THE BLACKLIST is utterly over the top but Reddingtons je sais quoi is both impeccable and irresistible. Fun show in spite of itself. A GOOD MARRIAGE opens Friday Theaters in major markets and VOD No competition but GONE GIRL and wholl want to see that Millie Brown the girl in INTRUDERS is terrific. Is it my imagination or are child actors a lot better than they used to be Lauren Beukes and my boy Joe Hill together nite at Porter Square Books Cambridge. Thats some double feature. Dr. Henry Louis Gates put this show together. Hes a god. Curious about where I came from Ancestors etc. Check out FINDING YOUR ROOTS tonight on PBS. PM EDT. I was amazed. theladypaige Youre the best. UNDER THE DOME season finale Youre probably going to be shocked by what happens. I know I was. Check it out. melfoster Happy birthday Melanie. Thanks to all the people who wished me a happy birthday Its the most awesome thing about turning Also King of the Slot Car Track by the Reach Around Rodeo Clowns. Song not quite as good as the group name but good. Funny video. DaleRLong Doing it right now. Jason D. Williams oh my God. The second coming of Jerry Lee Lewis. Download Fingernails. Do it now. Your ears will thank you. Watching a cool British series called PEAKY BLINDERS and who turns up as the scuzzball father Chibs Telford aka Tommy Flanagan IrenPolibanova Great picture of Pennywise. Maybe the best ever. WAIT Are you saying that Boots and Pants thing is a REAL SONG I must have it ahenchilada HelloI notice u are here... nowalkerbait Then theres the camel in the movie theater telling people to turn off their cell phones MikeMikeMike what day is it And the years most surreal ad The vacationing pig chanting Boots and pants and boots and pants and boots and pants brittcwhite Oh gosh. Thanks. Best line of the year in TV so far at least Is this what you really want Lester Very sad to hear that Graham Joyce a truly great novelist has passed away. Too soon. Far too soon. Bet Pet Seminary tweet was from the guy who said its about the Catholic church getting desperate for recruits. lambonthelam Tone nerves by watching JAWS DIABOLIQUE Italian zombie movies Eli Roth movies and so on. joehill Lauren Groff Cool. Planned Parenthood Auction Cooler. Check it out. The book coming in November REVIVAL is a straightahead horror novel. If youre going to buy it better tone up your nerves. Sematary not seminary. Damn you autocorrect. lyfreetalkcheap Ellie Creed alive and well raised by adoptive parents but still has nightmares about the pet seminary. Me with a heaping helping of Jim Thompson novels. Beautiful editions from Mulholland Books. Yum joehill ViktoriaDeRoy THE RETURN OF THE KING when Sam carries Frodo. on my Bucket List not kicking it. wtrskitiger Even like the collected speeches of Lindsay Graham jessehoveUSA I WAS Stephen King in the rd grade and also turned out okay. Mostly. ThatNiceLee I love those guys too. Kudos to John Grisham who took the Ice Bucket Challenge. Man I hope that was a cheap cigar. ShermanAlexie marykarrlit Next to the Kingdom of Chlamydia. I got an advance copy of the new Jack Reacher novel. Its the best one yet. Out next month I think. Bank of America fined billion for selling rotten mortgages. Chump change. Koch Brothers worth six times that The last episodes of UNDER THE DOME totally rock. I think Dave Grohl looks very sweet in his prom dress. joehill Looks like an eyeglass made of books. What a concept. CynicalReaction God bless you. My socks thank you. And dont give me shit about my white socks. My shoes are wet and Im freezing. While I dry off go to icebucketchallenge and kick in some dough. The Ice Bucket Challenge John Grisham you are next Finally scored the new Linwood Barclay this afternoon. Shit I should have just driven to Canada and gotten it in June. Thats right Twitterversejust saying Lee Marvin also puts hair on your chest. And Robert Shaw. Ben Craw in Huffington Post Charles Bronson Just writing the name puts extra hairs on a mans chest JonnyOctober You sent my kids to college cavil hopperm Some talk about turning THE REGULATORS into a TV series. How weird is that WayneHarropson T. Jefferson kept a few slaves too yes Remember when paperback originals were cool Sex action suspense Try FRANKENSTORM by Ray Garton. Its old school. Govs Chris Christie NJ and Paul LePage Me. got together today for the first Rude White Male Politicians summit meeting. Williamss first appearance as Mork was a stunneryou knew at once that there had never been a comedian like him. BROKEN MONSTERS by Lauren Beukes Scary as hell and hypnotic. I couldnt put it down. Next month.Id grab it if I were you. johncusack How cool is that Professor Milford E. Wence One cannot succeed as an English major without a relentlessly dirty mind. From the Department of Suggestive Products SELF GRIP Will Not Stick to Hair or Skin Its a bandage. oceanview I was so excited that at one point I forgot the chords and theres only three of them LeadfootLesley Mmm I cant remember for sure but dont think so. God she could really play keyboards. skaution Calling me a musician would be stretching it. peterstraubnyc Those were good days. Almost years ago. Damn Singing backup on Gloria with Bruce Springsteen circa . Los Anegeles with the Rock Bottom Remainders. GENETICMISFIRE I never sleep. Lewis Black said of Republicans and Democrats a bowl of shit looking at itself in a mirror. Consensus is that using the Internet to solve crossword puzzles is unfair. Although sad I bow to the Twitterverse majority. jayjayminer Come on dude would Roland of Gilead do a crossword puzzle ciscodog I love it. Thanks. fudgxlord Oh man you guys are breaking my heart. What if its like a river in Serbia philmcnally Ouch. Is it fair to use the Internet to help solve crossword puzzles My kids say no. loganbransfield Not quite the same are they HamboneHammond Well its a good book to read in the summer I guess since prom seasons over. But dont die OK sherryward Yikes First Church of the Auto Loader Give me a big praise God and pass the ammo scoobots No you should come. Theyre waiting for you. I really like TYRANT but arent the opening credits ridiculously like GAME OF THRONES rtwaggon Thanks man. Love the Red Sox but must admit Ive started looking forward to the Patriots early this year. evilwombat I dont blame you. Bad news Brady Hartsfield will return. Its beautiful where I am but I still sort of wish I was at ComicCon... Simply put America is a democracy not a theocracy. TheDudeMattT Supreme Court said it does Emerson v. Board of Education interpreted the st Amendment as a wall between church and state. The Somalis have added life color and diversity. OfTooth Funkorific Come on up here and visit the Somali community in Lewiston. This problem is EVERYWHERE. RepArmyVet USALibertynow Keep checking the First Amendment my friend. I bet you know the Second by heart. SONS OF ANARCHY Best bro show ever. Cant wait for the new season. sutterink If you believe brothers dont turn on each other you must have been an only child. I miss the Governor on WALKING DEAD. He was a truly great villain. Maybe send them back wo screaming at them for a start Or is that too much to ask As Lennon said in Revolution Were all doing what we can. KarenAttaway Thats very thoughtful. Thanks. MrEerieMist Maybe theyre at a Ted Nugent concert deannabvb Yep happy birthday. Much easier to be a Christian when the little children arent in your back yard isnt it Revised Tea Party Gospel Suffer the little children come unto me. Unless theyre undocumented kids from Central America. This years most overused TV line Its complicated. It means absolutely nothing. On TV With all due respect means I will now explain why youre full of shit. SNOWPIERCERholy shit what a movie Try to see it in an actual theater Also A wall of separation between the garden of the church and the wilderness of the world. Roger Williams . nicholasdubya For Jefferson churchstate separation was vital to insure free speech and different customs which he termed exercise. nicholasdubya Thomas Jefferson first used the phrase during the crafting of the st Amendment to the Constitution. No not a Constitutional scholar justwatch this closely. Churchhere. Statethere. Separate. Would a picture help The Tea Partiers claim to love our Constitution but seem a bit foggy on the separation of church and state stuff. gmalft Thanks ColbyGuyJ Thanks man. Enjoy. Hey Im over tweets and have only stepped in shit a couple of times. Not bad for a beginner. Maine Democrats take note Shenna Bellows is the real deal. She CAN beat Susan Collins. RIP Johnny Winter. One of the blues greats. Best cover of Good Morning Little Schoolgirl ever. Cool UTD tonight. A rain of blood always freshens things up. Citibank fined billion for selling punk mortgages. My question Is that enough to really hurt or chump change to them maldie Lightning Bolt very cool. Trouble Town Even cooler. Jake Bugg. Check him out. Sounds like Dylan years ago. Fucking awesome. STATE OF WONDER by Ann Patchett took me awhile to get around to it but boy was it worth it. Highest recommendation. Dolls turn malignant late at night. They stare at you with those glassy eyes. I wont say theyre plotting but I cant say theyre not. Were getting down to it on DOME tonight too many people not enough resources. Sound familiar RT neilhimself joehill Batman needs all the hugs but is incapable of accepting them. There should be a pro football game today Nothing says America like men in helmets and tight shiny pants. joehill Batman doesnt hug it out Jeez. I bet Supes hugs it out. And watches soccer. Not to mention Oprah. I made Michael Grants GONE series last but finished the last one today. I am now free to leave the FAYZ but my time there was well spent. Jarzen Bethie LOVE IT booradley Oh gosh thats nice. There is however a country song called Id Rather Have a Bottle in Front of Me Than a Frontal Lobotomy. Has anyone ever written a song about air conditioning I could use one today. Thanks to EVERYONE who watched our show last night. Natalie we love you. countrygirl UnderTheDomeCBS Thanks ukfanever Wow thanks. PixxieTrixxie Cool Thank you Two hours and fifteen minutes until DOMEbut hey whos counting Right or possibly under a blue umbrella. If youre hunting for me tomorrow night on UNDER THE DOME look for the cap. johncusack Happy birthday but watch out for that cell phone. Im in the opening episode of UNDER THE DOME but you have to watch closely. Its a Wheres Waldo kind of thing. gwfnycwf I bet Ralph Fiennes cold kick AHHHnolds ass especially now that hes getting old. gwfnycwf Thats true but I bet Ralph Fiennes could kick BOTH our asses. JamieG Yes but are you sure that in SCHINDLERS LIST that wasnt like the one actor who plays all the clones in ORPHAN BLACK I keep getting Ralph Fiennes and Liam Neeson mixed up. Is it possible they are the same person Has anyone ever seen them together MisterTofi Like U. BathiaMapes BDavisCollins Mikkelsen nails it no doubt. AprilNeilson Will Graham and Clarice Starling fan. I like the good guys. ArchStanton I guess Ill watch it. Michael Mann right He was making that in NC when I was doing MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE. I also like Rachel. Theres a vibe about her like a chilled martini. Some of its the hair style. Brett Ratners film of RED DRAGON needs to be reevaluated. Amazing how fresh it looks. Like a new movie almost. ILikeThings Yes Cosima is cute. And hot. But Helena looksdangerous. And I like the way she says My sestra. Sowho is your favorite ORPHAN BLACK clone I have a Typical Guy fascination with Helena. UNDER THE DOME nights from now. Great cast and tight scripts. Im pumped. Emily Schultz is my new hero. You go with your bad self girl. linwoodbarclay You still flip the guy who cut you off. Some things never change. Really one novel. Youve never read anything like it. Faulkner crossed with Steve King. NICEVILLE and THE HOMECOMING by Carsten Stroud crazygood supernaturalcrimehorror epic. Blew me away. brigittekoca Yeah the rabbit looks so sad. But isnt it Trix Silly rabbit Trix are for kids jjones Ask the parents of the children who died in the Sandy Hook school if guns are a problem. Dumbass. Ensure is probably great but I always feel sorry for the corn dogs when they get kicked out of the fridge. What did they ever do DeathMetalHero Almost all of Elmore Leonard is good but Id go back to when he started writing crime SWAG or MR. MAJESTYK. Multiple gunshot wounds last night at Red Rocks. We regulator booze and tobacco its time to regulate firearms. I guess I expected something a little more uplifting on the BOOKS page. Like Novels Featuring Wardrobe Malfunctions. Using toilet seat liners is basically pointless. I found this on the HuffPost BOOKS page. Am I missing something Happiness is Ortiz and Napoli going back to back to win the game this afternoon in the bottom of the th. Hamburger pizza with double mushrooms natures most perfect food. I see you can record shows at the same time with Fios. Now try watching at the same time. The concept is surreal. nextstephenking Heres your tweet. Wear it in good health. To elaborate sort of What I posted was NOT a spoilerbut if I explained why that WOULD be. Trust me. gurghi Not a spoiler. Youll see. MR. MERCEDES is the first novel in a projected trilogy. Hodges Jerome and Holly will return in FINDERS KEEPERS next year. EmilyShadick Check em out. Your life will change for the better. ChristinaSharpe How about Arthur Conley Sweet Soul Music. Atco label. Wicked Wilson Pickett surebut how about Jackie Wilson Higher amp Higher God there was a voice. OwenKingwriter Thats a great bookstore. albabz Totally dope rhymes bro. albabz Yeah the rap thing is not working out. Mr. Poe youre boilin in Hades while Im ridin chill with Mr. Mercedes. Yeah better stick to books. Put a hold on the rap album. Listen here Poe never seen a rapper as lame as you. Ill fill your pit and bust your pendulum too. Uhmaybe better stick to books gorbyak Love to hear it JosephFalank Kick back with a hamburger and basically feel glad to be alive. MR. MERCEDES is in stores today. Hope you guys like it. And if you dont Im sure youll let me know. linwoodbarclay I want the Westeros Lego set. CRISIS is really great. What a shame it was canceled. Any chance one of the adult networks will pick it up Volunteers ericwilborn Bookseller is only mildly creepy. Good newsbad news kind of thing MR. MERCEDES comes out tomorrow but I think Poe shut me down in the rap contest. MR. MERCEDES comes out day after tomorrow Remember to buy one for all your relatives HAHAHAHAHA. Im loving THE SOUTHERN REACH TRILOGY by Jeff Vandermeer. Recommended by an indie bookseller. Creepy and fascinating. But kudos to one Sox castoff Josh Becket pitches a nohitter in Philadelphia. Red Sox losing streak reaches ten. Its like watching one of your good friends normally sober get drunk and puke on his shoes. According to Bev Vincent heres the Canadian version of BREAKING BAD You have cancer. Your treatments start tomorrow. The End. My new book comes out in days and I have the usual excitement accompanied by stage fright. That never seems to change. Loved DAYS TO KILL and miss Roger Eberthe would have dug its action sequences and crazy sentimental generosity. Jack Bauer stuck in a room with the worlds slowest upload. Reminded me of my old dialup connection. MauricioGomez HANNIBAL is literate thoughtful beautifully made and full of crazed psychopaths. Whats not to like khager Same size car bigger license plate. Like trunk size. After watching two seasons of HANNIBAL I think a new license plate motto is in order MARYLAND HOME OF EXOTIC MURDER SCENES. MGeschwind You could always lie... I wouldnt mind seeing No problem retired from the lexicon. Perhaps replaced by It was a pleasure. Happy Mothers Day all you moms. Sure wish mine was still around so hug yours for me. GodzillaMovie Only Godzilla can save us now. Re ORPHAN BLACK Omally says its Francis Bacon. Works for me. Those ORPHAN BLACK episode titles is it a poem If so which one While confessing Until I was in my s I thought that Roy Orbison song Only the Lonely was Holy Baloney. Ears not exactly too good. Sally Go Round the Roses by the Jaynetts What makes that song so goddam creepy BulgerMrs A graduate paper huh Not a book report Cant help ya there friend. joehill Those yellow prickly things are terrifying. Are they intelligent neilhimself I thought there was a line in a Dwight Yoakam song that said Ive got pickles in my head. It was ECHOES. scottgtweets Right and TRUE DETECTIVE. Also WALKING DEAD. HANNIBAL. CRISIS. FARGO. BATES MOTEL. And more This is the link I was trying to post before. Maybe now it works. Watch it now StephenKing After watching THE AMERICANS SOA and BREAKING BAD I have to say most movies are starting to look oldfashioned and way behind the curve. Ooops guys I posted a bad link. Ill post the right one later this afternoon. What if dead people started tweeting There might be a story in that. Charles Dickens could tell how DROOD was supposed to end. And then theres Elizabeth Cook. I could eat that cute lil accent with a spoon. Her show is called Apronstrings. Nobody on the radio is more pure fun than Mojo Nixon. That leatherlunged bellowFREEEEINDS always cracks me up. How about a SyFy madeforTV movie called LOCHNADO You know this tornado hits Loch Ness and... When serving Eggs Benedict theres no plate like chrome for the hollandaise. Could we um perhaps have a moratorium on sappy power ballads at the end of TV episodes AshtonNicole Happy Easter This constant rehashing of the tragedy shows no respect to the families it turns them into supporting players in CNNs ratings quest. The coverage reminds me of Alfred Austins awful couplet Across the wires the message cameHe is no better he is much the same. Somebody please make CNN stop with the plane coverage. Its time to move on. magiciansbook The French is crazy good. The girls in it are beautifully drawn. DOING HARM by Kelly Parsons best damn medical thriller Ive read in years. Terrifying OR scenes characters with real texture. johnklima Yes dont worry Hamlet lives. See him in the sequel HAMLET A HAPPIER DANE. RT SPORTBETTINGMAN StephenKing That is one spoiler I have no issue with reading. Good little prick of an actor though...hell be missed Another spoiler Romeo and Juliet die in Act . Come on guys its been in the books for years or so and the episode ran tonight. King Joffrey one glass of one too many. See you later you sadistic little punkass. Ryan Hardy gets shot in the gut then hes running around again in like minutes. Must have bulletdissolving muscles. I saw THE RAID yesterday. Especially liked Hammer Girl and Baseball Boy. My kung fu needs have been met for the next years. Oh boy things not going well under the Dome. Pray for Chesters Mill. I sort of wish Oscar Pistorius would stop crying. Jeez. Enough. I saw a screener of OCULUS and loved it. Very scary. I may never eat an apple again. Saw a very cool documentary tonight at the Sarasota Film Festival IN COUNTRY made by Mike Attie and Meghan OHara. See it if you can. Thanks to Patton Oswalt for that beautiful piece in Vulture. I owe you a big manly bro hug. The new Harlan Coben is twisty and terrific. The stuff about the cops wives is especially good. Beautiful observation. Im jealous. I just knew that if I lived long enough and was a good boy I would get to see Anthony Hopkins play Methuselah. My dream came true today. Horror is when you know and love the characters but you also know something very bad is going to happen to them. Its not the monsters Red Sox and Orioles in the Baltimore sunshine. I am so ready. CRISIS is damned good and Gillian Anderson is even better. zackwagman Couldnt put the damn thing down. linwoodbarclay The kids think theyre orphans. THE ACCIDENT by Chris Pavone if you like real nailbiters this is the best one so far this year. Read THE SECRET PLACE by Tana French when it comes out. Youll understand then. Great book. LilFeet Yep. Im progressing to amazeballs and awesomesauce. But it may take awhile. In Latin TERMINUS means End point. Maybe its just me but I dont like the sound of that. Pennywise spotted on Staten Island. Do I get royalties Glenn and Maggie Totes adorbs. carebearica Which book Glenn and Maggie are back together. Sunshine floods my previously gray life. joehill I hear you. Conceit was my last fault. Ive conquered it and am now perfect. MerlesBlueMeth Happy birthday to you happy birthday to you happy birthday dear Claire happy birthday to you. ianleedslife I have enough horror in my life wo buying a football team. My NCAA picks always make me feel like a fool. Still got Florida Wisconsin Louisville and Baylor. Curse you Harvard bighouse Life is grand isnt it IAmMaggieMull Then you have to eat the special pie. Savoring lifes little ironies in my town the Guys is right next to Weight Watchers. Oooo rightwingers mad about Obamacare tweets. Theyre the ones who think the earth is years old. THATS scary. Great autographing today in Sarasota. Thankeesai for all who stood in line. AngelAnicoleB Actually it sort of is true. FrancoSantos Hola Franco. You go with your bad self. Kickstarter will only work if people support the product. VERONICA MARS is a pretty big deal. I hope lots of people go to see it. BananaKarenina Kerry and the Russian look like somebody just cut the cheese. Mystery flight beginning to look more and more like a hijacking gone horribly wrong. Glad I watched the TRUE DETECTIVE finale on regular TV. Spoiler It was awesome. They can replace the Affordable Care Act with...the UNAFFORDABLE Care Act No wonder the insurance companies would like to see it repealed. The nd season of UNDER THE DOME starts production tomorrow. Im pretty stoked. One of lifes odd truisms The harder it is to get into the package the less you want whats inside. Best line of the week goes to Eugene in THE WALKING DEAD Trust me. Im smarter than you. pattonoswalt Great picture I LOVE Black Widow spiders RaysNurseK Both. Fundamentalists claim the world is only years old. I have a pair of jeans older than that. Reading LOCAL SOULS by Allan Gurganus and came across a nice quote attributed to Joe Louis I did the best I could with what I had. NergisBakir Happy birthday Have a great one ecs Hola ORANGE IS THE NEW BLACK is kind of like THE WALTONS. If the Waltons were all women that is. And in prison. Good night Piper linwoodbarclay Yes good old F.U. If you read Alex Marwoods THE WICKED GIRLS her new oneTHE KILLER NEXT DOORis even better. Scary as hell. Great characters. Maybe with Michelle Bachman on the ticket just to complete the beauty of the thing nurseheidi Few could equal Yard Smith when she got her CURRRtis on. Ted Cruz in Florida to court bigmoney donors for a Presidential run. Things just keep getting better dont they Happy Valentines Day all you Constant Readers pattonoswalt What Bieber story Dont make me go to TMZ. ORANGE IS THE NEW BLACK I was dubious at first but it sort of hits its stride when Pipers hunting for the chicken. LauraJSilverman Have you noticed the way McConaughey hoovers his cigarettes Thats serious smoking. Theres a poster for the CELL movie on DREAD CENTRAL. Very cool. Check it out. Winner of the George ZimmermanDMX fight gets to take on Justin Bieber. MelancholySteph Hate spiders. The worst. No extension of unemployment benefits conservative millionaire reps expect cake sales to skyrocket. Ceillimiss Canadas even better. George Zimmerman in a celebrity boxing match. Thats it time to move to Australia. The new season of UNDER THE DOME is shaping up to be terrific. Chaos and destruction nobody safe. linwoodbarclay Congratulations. Richly deserved. partylethbridge Right back at ya. Short version I apologize for screwing up. Extended version LeoKing Yall for groups. Got it. Yew wont see me do that agin. joehill Can there be rats in the wardrobe Still learning my way around this thing. Mercy please. Have no opinion on the accusations hope theyre not true. Probably used the wrong word. CLmedic My pleasure. marykarrlit Boy Im stumped on that one. I dont like to think its true and theres an element of palpable bitchery there but... gravelmans Most ODs are suicide when you get right down to it. Sad news about Hoffman. Proves again a selfevident truth dont fuck with the White Lady. White Lady always wins. New rule for movies and TV You must stop reading or watching as soon as someone says I knew from the first moment I saw you. Man I loved Jessica Lange singing The Name Game in ASYLUM. That was class in action. texan Thats very thoughtful of you. Nice reasoned discourse. KateySagal Maybe Tara will come back from the dead. I could write that episode. Breznican Loving the book. Hilarious prologue. In a horrifying way. Republican millionaire reps doubtful about minimum wage increase seem to feel if working class folks cant afford bread they can eat cake. PamelaO The cleaner is always available although he wouldnt go near that Tara thing. Too sad. marykarrlit I hear THAT my sister. Pete Seegers organizing the UUA this morning the Union of United Angels. Gonna miss him here on earth though. That book DOMINION is terrific. And no this isnt one of those publishersponsored blurbs. I just fell in love with it. Nice and long too. pattonoswalt Happy birthday to the monster of amusement. TeeRiddle I didnt choose the ending of THE DARK TOWER. It chose me. I just wrote it down. CakeGenie He did. So did Philip K. Dick THE MAN IN THE HIGH CASTLE. There are many ways to defur a feline. revistaenie Really me. Gerties If you want to eat picks no one can stop you. This is America. juanitabarrett Many thanks. Robert Louis Stevenson Sooner or later we all sit at the banquet of our consequences. DOMINION by C.J. Sansom Great alternatehistory novel. The Nazis win occupy Britain. On sale this week. Check it out. pattonoswalt My thought exactly. FrankDarabont Welcome to Twitter boss. Ever notice that characters in TV shows hardly ever watch TV shows Their lives are took exciting I guess. iGotbGary Actually I did see it. Very cool. Memo to Justin Bieber For the young celeb life is a banquet of free food. What they dont tell you is that you are often the last course. BaileyCrawly Exactly. And Dev gets his gf back. Microwave Dave and the Nukes Best slide guitar rock and roll since Lonesome George Thoroughgood and the Destroyers. danettelay Reread JOYLAND only back to front. It will be like that movie MEMENTO. pattonoswalt Her critical analysis of romance novels is very sweet I never saw that coming. You will take my waffle when you pry it from my cold dead syrupcaked hands. I stand my ground. thepseudogeek Happy Birthday Many more marnasaurusrex Im waiting until its all there. Then Ill binge. vamunchkin The BEST Waffle House I was never in a bad one. Theyre small and cozy. Smells good. Waffle House rules. inthefade Ive been known to go to Burger King too. Whopper with cheese. Hateful. Wonderful. My eating habits are horrible. Favorite restaurant is Waffle House. How sad is that rosekb Hello to you Rosemary SupSvcMI Thats what I think too. Unfair. joehill NOSA back on the NY Times bestseller listdid you see Could a woman of Chris Christies size be taken seriously as a presidential candidate Just asking although I think I know the answer. On the Bridge Scandal Impossible to believe Chris Christies rude amp pugnacious attitude didnt filter down to the troops. RichardDooling A man who knows how to make bacon bread Welcome aboard linwoodbarclay Um...I dont think computer geeks were invented when Marlowe was sleuthing. There WERE paperboys. Jukin by the World Famous Headliners. Check it out. JackLedfordIII Wore out four Watermans writing that book. pourmecoffee I still say cat. And slip me some skin. Its how I roll daddyo. Now Ive got smog in my noggin and gotta flip outta sight. After a big Yankee payday Boston Dirt Dogs says that Jacoby is now officially the Ellsbury Doughboy. mikozlowski STORM OF THE CENTURY is one of my favorites. Sometimes things go right and theres magic. rodhuntress It can take you all the way to lunch as long as you take a snackbreak in between. Just saw LABOR DAY. Uneven but it sure hit my emotional sweet spot. Winslet shines. Nice cameo by Tobey Maguire. HarlanCoben Happy birthday May you have a hundred more MaximusPaynicus OMG that explains SO MUCH. Everything really. Ahhnold works for The Weather Channel. KellyBraffet You oldtimers Always reminiscing I love it. joehill tweets are never enough. Go for dozen. KhannahHaggles More than welcome. Books take us away. Thats what theyre for. joelcobbs How about Winter Storm Flagg Or Winter Storm Annie Wilkes That would be one cockadoodie storm. If shit was money poor people would be born without assholes. Read it in Tom Coopers THE MARAUDERS. Naming winter storms dorky or just me I meanHercules Get serious. Hemingways ultra short story Baby shoes for sale. Never worn. Cat should have been on Twitter. StephanieJHRN Happy birthday Steff. RykerGoldsbury Nope. But it would be a good story. Scully is so rational. It would be fun to watch her go totally . joehill Only boring people find the Doors boring. Snap Scully kills Mulder when her flimsy wall of denial finally crumbles. Is committed to an asylum with Hannibal Lecter. I smell a sequel. briankoppelman But its OK to use like a dictionary Or encyclopedia selizabethdaly Best to just buy them all. HAHAHAHAHA. DylanLee There is no puzzle god. At least I dont think so. wilw Hey the guys who MAKE crossword puzzles probably have apps up the wazoo right Arbitrate an argument with my kids Is it fair to use the Internet to solve crossword puzzles I say yes. joehill Gramer and spelling is for ijits. I always no what I means. The years most annoying TV promo This is the episode that will change everything Only it never fucking does. Its Merry Christmas at our house. Whatever it is at yours have a happy one. And be good to somebody. I believe the most common phrase in the movies is either You look like shit or You need to get some sleep. robynkehler You made my day. joehill Im having Locke and Key withdrawal so went back to the beginning. Welcome to Lovecraft GerrainRostock HAHAHAHAHAHA. stanthemanchan Yeah And long fingernails to open the throats of bad little boys amp girls Hehhehheh. Does it matter if Santa is white or black or green as long as he brings the presents Come on guys get a life. chrispj Thanks man. Im looking forward to it too. Under The Dome in Google Trends TV Shows trending chart googletopcharts Probably the last person in America to encounter What Does the Fox Say. Now it will never leave my head. joehill Like I didnt want to move to Florida in the winter but I turned and its the law. joehill No hooky allowed You must tweet How can Jacoby Ellsbury be a Yankee How could God allow it JennyDellNESN Oh thats the saddest picture Ive seen in months. I think I need to hide in the corner for awhile and weep. csittenfeld Well then youll just have to collaborate with someone else. linwoodbarclay Wiggle your tongue. Theyll think you have been possessed by Pazuzu. mcrysup Gemmas in hell already. kevo I thinkyes. OwenKingwriter Yes I admit it. I have stopped there but never bought a charger. joehill Keep meaning to watch that show. JanaJanaeaton Id want to be a True Knot guy. MargaretAtwood Thy poetry tonight is not thy best I wot. JstnBrnstn Still trying to figure it out. CallahanLexxie SonsofAnarchy Oooo thats COLD. AbbyBrickler Thanks. SonsofAnarchy Taras gonna be okay. Shes got to be okay. You hearing me GOT TO BE OKAY. Have seen the completed film version of A GOOD MARRIAGE. I thought it was terrific. Of courseI wrote it linwoodbarclay After Nucky...The Revenge of Chucky Maybe not but it rhymes. Almost. tauriqmoosa No. They drink and take drugs. My kind of monsters. joehill You deserved to be on that list. Finished RED MOON by Benjamin Percy. A werewolf epic. Cant stop thinking about it. OwenKingwriter You know what would be cool If Bob Dylan covered that old Vogues track Five OClock World. His voice would be perfect. linwoodbarclay Hope you saw it tonight HOMELAND. No spoilers so let me say a single word ASHTRAY. joehill The bad guy in Season of AMERICAN HORROR STORY is Bloodyface. When his ID is revealed I about shit. bitchwitched If I could spell trilogy. bitchwitched Loved the Millennium Triology ChattamMaxime Hey there you are We had some fun didnt we JudeClarke Im going to find them. It is very fine music. Watching THE RETURNED. Scary and sexy. Fun to see a foreign TV show that hasnt been Americanized. That kid Victors giving me nightmares. MargaretAtwood I have no idea what Im doing here. The thought of all those eyeballs has stricken me dumb. joehill Tweet whatever you want. Just dont let me catch you with your hand in your pants. peterstraubnyc characters are enough. Weve made pretty good careers out of letters. And some punctuation On Twitter at last and cant think of a thing to say. Some writer I turned out to be. MegGardiner Yeah its me. My first tweet. No longer a virgin. Be gentle 