Whatever heart or church is inhabited by the Most High will stand. He is in her midst and she shall not be moved. Psalm Correct Kings to Celebrate your absolute allegiance to Jesus Christ willingly eagerly joyfully no regrets no restraints. Epaphras made known to us your love in the Spirit. Colossians . Your love in the Spirit. This is not pietist jargon. This is reality. years ago today the iPhone launched. I know my phone has changed me but for better or worse How do we see the glory of God through Scripture. We cant savor or share what we dont see. God has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Colossians . This is done. Grace to you and peace. What does that really mean There are amazing treasures in every word. Look at the Book. If I had small children I would play this beautiful catechetical song with them often. Especially near funerals. We heard of the love you have for all the saints because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Colossians . Love because of hope. My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. Psalm From where Believe this say at oclock tomorrow afternoon. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. Luke How futile then to guard the mouth and leave the heart unchanged. Jesus said Young man I say to you arise. And the dead man sat up and began to speak. Luke This is our God our glory our friend. We first identify with the King of the universe not any country nationality or political party. Apart from Christ we deserve hell. God would be innocent. You O Lord are justified in your words blameless in your judgment. Psalm Every heavenbound breath that a believer takes was bought by the blood of Christ. Parents of young adults who are dating you wont be embarrassed to give this book. Its serious and biblical. Stephen Witmer on the history and hubris of dating Jesus second coming. Trust the promise not the timing. If demons rise against your family wave the crimson flag of Christ. Trust his triumph. They will fall. Kings Rev. What is Christian meditation Twominute video with David Mathis. Sennacherib on a leash. Because you have raged against I will put my hook in your nose. Kings So shall Satan fall. A love that never ends is a love that suffers long. Jon Bloom calling us to bear the fruit of longsuffering. . . . that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you are God alone. Kings The final ground of all our prayers for help. I have gone astray like a lost sheep seek your servant for I do not forget your commandments. Psalm . Last verse. Seek me O Lord After years still leaping for joy at the rediscoveries of the Reformation. I predict and pray that this will become the goto book on dating for Christians for a long time to come. Every millisecond of my life is sustained by God. All my giving is first a receiving. Be merciful even as your Father is merciful. Luke When I think of Gods longsuffering with me my impatiece with others is damnable. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem Psalm . Jews Dont Need Jesus and Other Misconceptions by Avi Snyder. God is kind to the ungrateful. Luke Millions of them. Thousands of ways. Every day. But let one affliction come and he is guilty. On any given Sunday God may take the message we felt worst about and make it the means of a miracle. Must I be carried to the skiesOn flowry beds of easeWhile others fought to win the prizeAnd sailed through bloody seas Isaac Watts Everything that is not God serves a purpose higher than itself. Nothing is to be justified as an end in itself or for its own sake. Great peace have those who love your law nothing can make them stumble. Psalm Learn from Paul how to be brought low. How not to murmur at the unplanned detours. I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil. Psalm Better than all riches. For what would you trade the word of God Rejoice in that day of persecution and leap for joy for behold your reward is great in heaven. Luke Do you Behold that is Only once did Jesus say Leap for joy. Namely when people hate exclude revile and spurn you as evil on account of Christ. Luke Dont sell yourself short when it comes to what you think you can discover in the Bible on your own. I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. Phil. . So bidden by Jesus in Luke . Total dependence on Gods grace does not mean no dependence on Gods means of grace. The Christian may not say I have not need of you. Is Every Christian a Saint Look at the Book on Philippians . He went to the mountain to pray and all night he continued in prayer to God. Luke Sleeps in a storm. Wrestles through the night. Christ suffered for you leaving you an example... When he was reviled he did not revile in return. Peter O to follow him well. I quoted this in the first sermon I preached at Bethlehem Baptist Church in . A pole star. The Lord has called for a famine and it will come upon the land. Kings The Lord gives and takes away. In tears we say blessed.... Beloved I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Peter If our Lords return is soon why the twomillennia delay I call to you save me that I may observe your testimonies. Psalm Is this why you want to live Keep your conduct among the Gentiles beautiful so that they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Peter Beginning our slow happy trek through Philippians. Look at the book. Verse What it means to be a slave of God What peace can there be so long as the whorings and the sorceries of Jezebel are so many Kings Where does peace come from Tony Reinke on Gods joy as the ground of ours. Simply Jesus said My joy I give to you. None there. None here. And the man of God wept. Kings God requires that we submit to his future without murmuring but not without tears. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them and then they will fast in those days. Luke That would be now. Jesus became obedient to the point of death even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him. Philippians Go deep with God in his word and you will know him as youve never known him before. Turn to me and be gracious to me as is your way with those who love your name. Psalm Lords Day reading discovery. The sermon is called the The Threefold Work of the Holy Spirit. The unfolding of your words gives light. Psalm A Fathers Day verse. God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts crying Abba Father Galatians Miracles dads dont brag about their ability or ingenuity. He would withdraw to desolate places and pray. Luke Some solitude with God is essential. Regardless of culture or family structure. The Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Luke . Everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins. Acts . You are my hiding place and my shield. . . My flesh trembles for fear of you. Psalm . Good trembling in a safe place. They left everything and followed him. Luke And that was no ultimate sacrifice The Lord is better than life itself. When Simon Peter saw the merciful miracle he fell down at Jesus knees saying Depart from me for I am a sinful man O Lord. Luke Jon Bloom on true greatness. The crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God. Luke The human ear in the human soul was made for this Sharing in the suffering of our friends can make us weary. Dont let their pain drive you away. Your testimonies ... are the joy of my heart. Psalm . If theyre not ask him for this. The Psalmist did. Incline my heart v.. Do You Know How to Be Saved Sixth and final session of Look at the Book on the Good News of Christianity. I am severely afflicted give me life O Lord according to your word Psalm Jesus would not allow the demons to speak. Luke This power has not changed to this day. Jesus is different from all other preachers and teachers of good news because he is the good news. Being with him is joy. How sweet are your words to my taste sweeter than honey to my mouth Psalm When we say O Lord I give myself wholly to you what are we confessing The calling of every Christian To proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Peter minute video on how we might process the flaws of our dead heroes. I will never forget your precepts for by them you have given me life. Psalm No life without the word. Do you know what God has done for you The fifth biblical truth in our sixpart Look at the Book on the Gospel. Answer me O Lord that they may know that you are God and you have turned their hearts back. Kings . The prayer in every prayer. I have commanded the ravens to feed you. Kings He also commands wind and waves Luke demons Mark worms Jonah . Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Ephesians Learning to be strong in the strength of another is everything. Pew research on changes in the percentages of interracial couples in the last years. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. Psalm So reading is the path to inestimable riches. June is the th anniversary of the end of states prohibition of interracial marriage. What does the Bible say I know God loves me. But does he like me In faithfulness you have afflicted me. Psalm God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Luke Wealthy stones. Sexy stones. Political stones. Precious stones. Kristin Tabb on the way corporate worship awakens hope and encourages us in our waiting. Philippine citys Christians have been singled out for execution. Two beheaded. As sheep for slaughter Rom.. There is a sadness in the Christian life that seasons all our joy with sorrow. All of it. Till we are home. My high expectations and experience of what happens in corporate worship. minute video excerpt. At midnight I rise to praise you because of your righteous rules. Psalm Day and night the word awakens praise for the author. Psalm Yahweh is my portionmy share my booty my plunder my reward my treasure. Amazing word for our Creator. The preChrist self was ruined by desires of deceit. Ephesians . That is desires whose power thrives on not seeing reality as it is. I love to sing this verse of The Love of God. The tune. The poetry. The reality. RT mcbelz Really its just the best news of the week. Been following this case a long time. iraq Christians should be the saddest and happiest people in the world. minute video clip. This blessing has fallen to me that I have kept your precepts. Ps. Obedience is a gift. Settle it deep inside. Every step a gift. This is my comfort in my affliction that your word gives me life. Ps. Nothing opens us to the lifegiving word like affliction. A temptation of impatience. Speaking the truth in love we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head Christ. Eph. The food of truth gives growth. My eyes have seen your salvationa light for revelation to the Gentiles and glory to your people Israel. Luke Salvation is light. All knees shall bow to thee all wits shall riseAnd praise him who did make and mend our eyes. George Herbert David Mathis explains the New Teastament teaching of the nearness of Christs second coming. I bring you good news of great joy. For unto you is born this day a Savior. Luke . Spend a lifetime probing this word great. In prophesying we wield Gods word. Authority In punditry we promote our opinions. Cleverness Pastors dont be duped from your calling. I find my delight in your commandments which I love. Psalm The words of a king. Pray they would be the words of the president. When loyalty to God overrides our loyalty to a local church. The whole earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom which God had put into his mind. Kings God puts wisdom. Ask. I will speak your testimonies before kings and not be put to shame. Psalm When you stand before kings prophesy dont politicize. What is the Christian Gospel Six Biblical Truths. . Look at the Book. ...according to the riches of his glory strengthened through his Spirit in your inner being. Eph. . Rest not till you know this. That in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians O to be a means of others being thrilled with Jesus. My desire is to depart and be with Christ for that is far better. Phil. If this is morose to you pray for a greater view of Christ. If I am to live in the flesh that means fruitful labor for me. Philippians Lord if you give me life give me fruit. Will the painful memories of how we wronged others paralyze us Or propel us deeper into Christ If I am to live in the flesh that means fruitful labor for me. Philippians Lord if you give me life give me fruit Husbands live with your wives according to knowledge Peter . He bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness Peter . I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you which is your glory Ephesians . When you read this you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ Ephesians . Reading is access to Godgiven insight. John the Baptists great calling To give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins Luke . Let another praise you and not your own mouth a stranger and notyour own lips. Proverbs God looks far down on the heavens Psalm . There is a great distance between the created universe and God. The Lord is high above all nations and his glory above the heavens Psalm When the Bible feels like a piece jigsaw puzzle with no picture on the box how do we put it together From the rising of the sun to its setting the name of the Lord is to be praised Psalm . Because he is supremely praiseworthy. Through Christ we have access in one Spirit to the Father. Ephesians Access to God No better place. No better person. Forever. This article is a profound and biblically penetrating introduction to God and suffering and goodness and groaning. My soul melts away for sorrow strengthen me according to your word Psalm Strength in sorrow not just before and after. Sacred Book Sovereign God Serious Joy Why Study Liberal Arts in College Our problem We always prefer other things to God.Our solution A supernatural Godgiven sight of glory. Tony Reinke shows how utterly relevant the Scripture is in deciding what innocent nothings you click through to. When the preborn Jesus in Mary approached pregnant Elizabeth the preborn John leaped for joy. Luke . The Gospel in six labs. Do you know why God created you Six words to say through tears. By Nancy Guthrie. This is my fullest effort to understand the relationship between Christian Hedonism and Jesus words on selfdenial. When every eye was on Jesus on every movement of every muscle in his face he was not uncomfortable. Thats where every eye belongs. Christ bore in his suffering the cause of all our sufferingsin. And he bought by his suffering the cure of all our sufferingforgiveness. Not to find God satisfying is the root and essence of all evil. Jeremiah . Every book I write is either based on the Bible or built on sand. If you use the language of Gods permitting evil do not forget that his permissions are all wise and purposeful and achieve his plans. In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches. Psalm If this is not true for you ask God for it. God raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. Ephesians You shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. Luke Parental and kingdom catastrophe His father had never at any time displeased him by asking Why have you done thus and so Kings Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes Psalm Christ suffered once for sins the righteous for the unrighteous that he might bring us to God. Peter The goal of the gospel. It is better to suffer for doing good if that should be Gods will than for doing evil. Peter And it is often Gods will. The Lord is on my side I will not fear. What can man do to me Psalm I waited patiently for the L Ps. . Learning to wait for God when life seems darkest. The whole law fulfilled in one word You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Galatians My wants become the measure of my service. As you restore others keep watch on yourself lest you too be tempted. Galatians Being Ashamed of Jesus Is Deadly. Look at the Book on Mark . RT betweenworlds Excellent article by davidcmathis on the biblical practice of elders anointing the sick with oil today He has risen he is not here. See the place where they laid him. Mark The world and all reality has never been the same or will be. When the pastors autistic son is screaming and biting should he keep preaching If you accept circumcision Christ will be of no advantage to you. Galatians Christ is all of your justification or none of it. Short video on the new book Reading the Bible Supernaturally. If I still preach circumcision the offense of the cross is removed. Galatians The cross offends by stripping us of any contribution. Strong Christians are created not by sermons and commentaries alone but by personal encounters with Scripture. My word shall not return empty but shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. Isaiah Hong Kong or Havana same word same power. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart since you have been born again of imperishable seed. Peter Love for you cannot die. You Cant Buy a Soul Out of Hell. Look at the Book on Mark Do not follow the passions of your former ignorance. Peter Passions of ignorance. Like joy over a broach only to find it a roach. Light dawns in the darkness for the upright. Psalm Which also implies that the upright are allowed to enter the darkness. Are you the Christ the Son of the Blessed And Jesus said I am. Mark This is a facet in the diamond of his peculiar glory. O God put our tongues out of taste for the bait of the devil The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom all those who practice it have a good understanding. Psalm A possible wedding gift for the couple you care about. Happily Ever After Finding Grace in the Messes of Marriage. Great are the works of the Lord studied by all who delight in them. Psalm There is a way to study delights that deepens them. God shows no partiality. Galatians No privileges. No excuses. You and God face to face on his terms every motive laid bare. Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me Let the Scriptures be fulfilled. Mark Plan. Script. Done. The religion of a worldly man is like puddles after a rain that soon dry up. But the religion of a truly good man is like a river. Edwards Christians do you not realize this about yourself that Jesus Christ is in you Corinthians . Ponder what exploits his implies. He was crucified in weakness but lives by the power of God. Corinthians . Power through weakness. And even the power not our own. When they had sung a hymn they went out to the Mount of Olives. Mark A song before the saddest daythe price of all gladness. But gentle David was not gentle with those who refused to be gentle with the sons of Saul. Samuel Four things legalism isnt.Three things legalism is. I was gentle today though anointed king. Samuel Thus David. Thus the the Son of David. Thus the followers of the great King. With God we shall do valiantly. Psalm Save Your Life By Losing It. Look at the Book on Mark Part Oh grant us help against the foe for vain is the salvation of man Psalm O how can we not tremble with happiness And sing and sing and sing. Unlike Islam. minute video clip. I seek not what is yours but you. . . I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. Corinthians Perhap among your many prayers pray that the Lord would make you utterly unashamed of the whole counsel of God. Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one. Corinthians . x . Yet he saw Christ worth it. Ive jogged for close to years and its no fountain of youth. Body image isnt the purpose of working out. Heaven and earth will pass away but my words will not pass away. Mark So those born of these words will not pass away. Pet. When is the kingdom of God emphatically not good news Minute video clip. I love the way Ray Ortlund celebrates his father almost as much as I loved his father. The weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. Corinthians False christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders to lead astray if possible the elect. Mark What Does It Mean to Take Up Your Cross Look at the Book on Mark . Yes. Yes. Yes. Age is better than youth. Let it show. Why would you want to become a fake human to mark maturity The Lord gave us authority for building you up not for destroying you Corinthians . Thats the goal of all Christian authority. Satans servants disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. Corinthians Righteous deeds do not justify false doctrine. Seven reasons God planned this apparent contradiction in Scripture. Brother will deliver brother to death and the father his child and children will rise against parents and have them killed. Mark The one who endures to the end will be saved. Mark You must does not negate you will. His faithfulness is behind both. The Lord gave us authority for building you up not for destroying you. Corinthians Thats the goal of all Christian authority. Why did I write biographies Because watching someone follow Jesus for a lifetime inspires me to follow Jesus. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God. Corinthians They will receive the greater condemnation. Mark O Divinely determined degrees of condemnation make everything perfectly just. The weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. Corinthians And its all true. O Lord how manifold are your works In wisdom you made them all the earth is full of your creatures. Psalm See wisdom everywhere. O Lord my God you are very great Psalm Now say it again and this time tell him you really mean the word my. Men may be as Covetous as they Please after spiritual Riches. Jonathan Edwards David and Jonathan wept with one another David weeping the most. Samuel Did anyone exult more or weep more than this king Making jewelry out of human embryos. Read and weep. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens and his kingdom rules over all. Psalm Over all. A L L. All. Thanks be to God who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you. Corinthians No less precious for being put. Nations will fear the name of the Lord and all the kings of the earth will fear your glory. Psalm As the waters cover the sea. Sin is Godbelittling badness.Folly is Godbelittling stupidity.And theres a difference according to Scripture. I wrote to you that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you. Corinthians We need others simply to know our own selves. I rejoice not because you were grieved but because you were grieved into repenting. Corinthians Painful stages of holy love. How to See Jesus in Proverbs. Look at the book on Proverbs . In all our affliction I am overflowing with joy. Corinthians This not complaining elicits the wonder What are you hoping in Avi Snyders book by a Jew for Jews is so important. May God use it for the lifting of the veil. O Lord come. It is marvelous in our eyes. Mark The stone rejected by theological architects has become the cornerstone. Pray for such eyes. I will walk with integrity of heart in the inner parts of my house. Psalm Where I can be sure no one sees me. Even there. Pure. You are restricted in your affections. . . widen your hearts. Cor. Though we cant make true affections happen we can make room. Renounce revenge. Trust your cause to God. Return good for evil. We can do all this right now. We are the temple of the living God as God said I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them. Corinthians As sorrowful yet always rejoicing as poor yet making many rich as having nothing yet possessing everything. Corinthians Four ways to become wise. Look at the Book on Proverbs . In the U.S. of all food goes to waste. Message in our recycle reminder email this morning. Another booklet Dont waste your . . . While we are still in this tent we groan. Corinthians Sin is not groaning but murmuring. If the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed we have a building from God eternal in the heavens. Cor. From tent to temple. We have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. Corinthians We do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away our inner self is being renewed day by day. Corinthians Is homosexuality truly more detrimental to a society than other sins We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with Gods word. Corinthians We have this ministry by the mercy of God. Corinthians Every Christian can say this. Oh sing to the Lord a new song for he has done marvelous things Psalm Pause and ponder four or five of these marvelous things. Though You Slay Me. Men of valor whose hearts God had touched. Samuel Holy valor is not innate or inbred. Tim Challies wrote a tribute to my mother. Sweet Her smile. Her smile Almost as good as Daddys laugh. God gave him another heart. Samuel Do not these words fill you with longing God does this. Who does not need heartchange Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us but our sufficiency is from God. Corinthians Anything My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Phillipians O you who love the Lord hate evil Psalm The fragrance of the knowledge of him. Cor. True knowing of Christ is spiritual tasting Peter seeing Cor. smelling. Letter to a Friend Engaged to a Nonbeliever. By Sean Nolan. Do I overly complicate saving faith Responding to a criticism. We work with you for your joy. Corinthians Then who can be saved Jesus said With man it is impossible but not with God. For all things are possible with God. Mark God Over Money. What is the good eye and the bad eye Look at the Book on Matthew . Holy habits are Gods design to hold you fast to the end of your earthly road. They will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise. Mark Mock. Spit. Flog. Kill. Rise. In peace I will both lie down and sleep for you alone O Lord make me dwell in safety. Psalm If you are insulted for the name of Christ you are blessed because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Peter Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. Psalm Gods will is that our hearts and mouths conform to his greatness. How not to be eaten by worms. Wisdom from Marshall Segal. Teach a child fearlessness in the face of hell in Christ and you give them a lifetime of courage. Truly I say to you whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. Mark With no pretense of meriting. Excellent exhortation for how to read the Bible from David Mathis. Twominute video. False prophets in sheeps clothing are ravenous wolves. Matt. How much more ravenous then are such prophets in shepherds clothing. We Will Reign with the Risen Christ. Look at the Book on Psalm . The Lord appeared at Shiloh for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of the Lord. Samuel Himself by the word. The Lord kills and brings to life he brings down to Sheol and raises up. Sam. He does no wrong for life is his to give and take. The Lord declares Those who honor me I will honor and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed. Samuel The Lord makes poor and makes rich he brings low and he exalts. Samuel So be not proud in riches nor despair in poverty. Can Anyone Really Be Blameless Do you see yourself among the righteous in the Psalms Whats Paul mean when he says our works will be tested by fire And what does that mean for us today Today if you hear his voice do not harden your hearts. Psalm Stony ground bears no fruit. Welcome the seed with soft humble dirt. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me and whoever receives me receives not me but him who sent me. Mark Let all that you do be done in love. Corinthians The Son of Man will be delivered to the hands of men and they will kill him. After three days he will rise. Mark Thats the plan. Mightier than the thunders of many waters mightier than the waves of the sea the Lord on high is mighty Psalm The greatest love thats ever been shown The greatest person made the greatest sacrifice for the greatest gift to the least deserving. Here is Moses on a mountain Elijah on a mountain Jesus on a mountain and God says This is my beloved Son listen to him. Mark Unlike loving flawed people loving God means being really glad that he is what he is and suitably glad that he does what he does. Brothers do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil but in your thinking be mature. Corinthians . Mature thinkers. Probably all the failures of my life can be laid at the feet of my failure to be happy in God. Blessed are the people who walk O Lord in the light of your face. Psalm . His eyes and his mouth are in his face. Teach me to live that I may dread The grave as little as my bed. Thomas Ken Does Man Still Have Dominion Look at the Book on Psalm . Video of two American guys talking in a truck. Sound alike. But dont look alike. Hows that an issue Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Psa. Ask for satisfaction in God. The years of our life are seventy or even by reason of strength eighty they are soon gone and we fly away. Psalm Before the mountains were brought forth or ever you had formed the earth from everlasting to everlasting you are God. Psalm Pursue love. Corinthians Threeminute version of my favorite story about the power of looking. Especially at the Bible. O God break us free from the plague of superficial sleepwalking through this life. Do you feel more loved by God because he makes much of you or because at great cost to his Son he frees you to enjoy making much of him Joy lost and joy found. Glory smothered and glory shining. Michael Reeves minute video on early church. A day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. Psalm Intensity is better than extent. Christians get both in the end. Majesty in Meekness. Look at the Book on Psalm . Man who is born of a woman is few of days and full of trouble. Job If you think years is long you have lost your grip in reality. What would happen if you set aside minutes a day to read some substantial book This is for high school students. Were looking for young men and women who are deadly serious about joy. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Cor. Each. Each Christian. You Bringing about more good. Nancy Wilsons book on contentment and her sons brain tumor come out on the same day. Coincidence Not even close. With my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. Psa. Tell the children the teenagers how faithful he has been. Lifes an Instagram stage. And we the performers. It reminds me of college drama majors who couldnt stop acting. Debtors to mercy deserving of nothing here we find the life of brokenhearted joy humility and service. When we are judged by the Lord we are disciplined that we may not be condemned with the world. Corinthians Justified and judged. Sunday afternoon biography gleanings from Samuel Zwemer on Raymond Lull via Logos There must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized. Corinthians Psalm Sorry. Couldnt help myself. Some ground clauses must be seen. Andy and Jason Drive It Home. Two great books from two great friends. Video on the road. If there is a Robert Browning audio recording there could be a Spurgeon or Moody recording. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you O Lord and shall glorify your name. Psalm Israel did not remember the Lord who had delivered them from all their enemies. Judges This was not senility. But propensity. Since the number of deaths from opioids in the United States has quadrupled. A void exposed. Lord fill it. The happiness that Christ gives is worth more than all the silver and gold in the world. Jonathan Edwards. See Psalm Herod feared John knowing that he was a righteous and holy man yet he heard him gladly. Mark . Holiness will offend and attract. Herod feared John knowing that he was a righteous and holy man. Mark The only way not to be threatening is to approve sin. Marriage is about massive realities. Vastly more wonderful than most know. Andrew Wilsons beautiful minute video. Christ is to the heart of a true saint like a river to the roots of a tree that is planted by it. Jonathan Edwards on Psalm Give wine to one whose life is bitter Prov. . Alcohol for depression If this is true it affects the content and goal of all conversations and emails and blogs and tweets and sermons a Though I am free from all I have made myself a servant to all that I might win more of them. Corinthians Triumphs through mere babies. Dominion through mere man. Seeing Psalm whole. Look at the Book. The Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel. Corinthians The DG team created a beautiful format for these fascinating videos of Michael Reeves on joy and historys greats. Theres nothing beautiful about a sharp mind in the service of a hard heart. With every shrewd assessment are you moving toward helpfulness Amazingly all the recorded plenaries and workshops at the recent TGC National Conference are free online. There is one God the Father from whom are all things and for whom we exist. Cor. . You never need wonder again why are you exist. Anthony Kidd Pastoring parents of disabled kids and being one of those parents. We endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Cor. Anything. Therefore the gospel ranks... In a poem Its poetry month. Or in a few paragraphs. You choose. Why I write. My little Apologia Pro Vita Sua. Is male headship a lost cause The Lord strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel because they had done what was evil in the sight of the Lord. Judges If food makes my brother stumble I will never eat meat. Corinthians Love sets you free from evil bondage to innocent pleasure. If Adam sinned why did the whole creation fall into futility and corruption Look at the Book on Romans . Two keys to flourishing in the digital age. Tony Reinkes overflow at book launch time. If anyone loves God he has been known by God. Cor. . Everyone who believes Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. John Lets face our smartphone habits with the aim of deepening our delight in Jesus. I know of no book like this one. Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and how he had mercy on you. Mark Jesus had mercy on me. The amazing feedback on this article for those who cut themselves keeps arriving. Is there someone you want to help It is my pleasure to add my tribute to Don Carson in celebration of his ministry with this Festschrift. Let your face shine that we may be saved Psalm Otherwise we dont we dont see you or the path in front of us. Greg Morse on Marriage is not the mission and singleness doesnt have to be purgatory. Uncertainty is not the essence of humility. Jesus does not call us to doubt him in order to obey him. The essence The heart of a servant. Who better than you to witness to your unbelieving spouse and children about the satisfaction of Jesus If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you he who will also give life to your mortal bodies. Romans There is one Lord Jesus Christ through whom are all things and through whom we exist. Cor. He created all. He holds us in being. Easter morning meditation with my dear friend Jonathan Edwards who opens my drooping eyes. Jesus the Savior reigns The God of truth and loveWhen He had purged our stainsHe took his seat aboveRejoice again I say rejoice CW Segal signals seven victories on Easter Sunday. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God. . . . God will help her when morning dawns. Psalm Weeping may tarry for the night but joy comes with the morning. Psalm I effused about a Daniel Tyalors first novel Now Ive enjoyed the second. I hope you do. Twominute video on how you can know you are married to the right person and why it matters. The split curtain is precious. What about the split rocks The resurrections before Easter My Lord my everliving King I love you now and would not wasteOne hour to love you more but cling To you who death and me embraced. What awful aim What cruel end A scheme of suffering to spanThe ages for my sake Dear Friend You knew Indeed you formed the plan. The last Bible verse George Mueller read to his dying wife Psalm . No good withheld. O bloody path And in my place You strode unwavering the wayOf woe. To die you set your face And none could hasten or delay. Everybody who worked for the death of Jesus meant it for evilexcept One. Whose sins were nailed to the cross Mine. Whose hands were nailed to the cross Christs. For silver sold betrayed for me But not unwittingly. UntrueThis Judas kiss And yet when he Was chosen as your friend you knew. One of my greatest joys at age is to look across this country and see dozens of young preachers under whose ministry I would gladly sit. Suffering is working for us a weight of glory beyond all dreams. Look at the Book on Corinthians . I would rather be bundled with the Bible than any other book. Thats why I wrote Reading the Bible Supernaturally. Significant moments this morning with Jesus and Jasmine. Maundy Thursday. via Logos Not one word of all the good promises that the Lord made to the house of Israel had failed all came to pass. Joshua So in Christ. No other hero could step forth except the one who knew perfectly well the absolute horror that awaited him. The world aches to be awed. That ache was made for God. The world seeks it mainly through movies. Help us O God of our salvation for the glory of your name deliver us atone for our sins for your names sake Psalm His name You are not your own for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. Corinthians Bought. Owned. Exalting. The sequel to A Peculiar Glory just released Reading the Bible Supernaturally. I hope it helps you see his glory. Linger over the pain and shame of execution by Roman crucifixion. God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. Corinthians Every saint will have his Easter. How does suffering conform us to Christ Look at the Book on Hebrews . The body is not meant for sexual immorality but for the Lord and the Lord for the body. Corinthians Their heart was not steadfast toward him. . . Yet he being compassionate atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them. Psalm You dont need gorgeous buildings or stateoftheart ministries or phenomenal music to bring glory to God. Jesus looked around at them with anger grieved at their hardness of heart. Mark Both emotions simultaneous and sacred. Why not rather suffer wrong Why not rather be defrauded Suing other Christians is not Gods way. Corinthians A hundred people you see today are a heartbeat away from everlasting pain Matthew . That is judgment enough. Be part of the rescue. Soulkeeping joy. Jesus burden for us on his last night. The most important thing the world needs to hear tweetsized. If the world is to be judged by you are you incompetent to try trivial cases Corinthians What we will be shapes what we are. If you feel that Holy Week caught you off guard heres a last minute help. Download free and read pages a day. The Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath. Mark Which God Almighty established in creation. Who then is this Son of Man The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away and then they will fast in that day. Mark Thats now. Because we want him. He who converts his neighbor has performed the most practical Christian political act of all. C. S. Lewis Gods majesty is magnified when human beingsold and youngare satisfied to glory in it rather than to grab it. Psalm and Matthew . You are old and advanced in years and there remains yet very much land to possess. Joshua Ive loved this since I was . The Bible relentlessly lowers our expectations for this life and raises them for the next and so frees us to love. Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump as you really are unleavened. Corinthians What do you have that you did not receive If then you received it why do you boast as if you did not receive it Corinthians I love these comrades in Christian Hedonism and I love their books because I love the Bible. Here is the best deal Not a crusade against parachurch campus ministries but we need to rethink a few things. With me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. Corinthians Jesus Is with You Wherever You Go. Minute video clip on Missions. Few things get me more fired up. In the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs. Psalm Does God bring us to despair Second session of Look at the Book on suffering. Corinthians . In hours I can begin to hate the best of men. F.D. Tragic as it is Syria is not the fastest growing refugee crisis in the world. Add to your prayers South Sudan. Four glimpses of the mercy of God. It is precious beyond all estimation that the sovereign and just God is merciful. Surely the wrath of man shall praise you. Psalm If you dont read page books A Peculiar Glory maybe an page article summing it up. What I called who I am John Owen called indwelling sin. Rosaria Butterfield on killing sexual sin. The wrong kind of asceticism torments the self. The right kind kills the self. C. S. Lewis At your rebuke O God of Jacob both rider and horse lay stunned. Psalm We are Desiring God believe that joy is close to the essence of divine and human reality. It is a serious business. You dont have to be a pastor. Every Christian would benefit from knowing about the Reformation. Great help here What the human heart has not conceived God has prepared for those who love him Corinthians Do you love him Unimaginable glory When one says I follow Paul and another I follow Apollos are you not being merely human Corinthians Human is not enough. We impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God which God decreed before the ages for our glory. Cor. Before the ages for your glory. Does any engaged or married person celebrate that the partner learned to kiss in a previous relationship Press through your false guilt and your true guilt and enjoy the sweet contentment of Gods love for you. We are being killed all the day long. . . But in all these things we are more than conquerors. Romans Launching MLK tonight at TGC . The first of Look at the Book sessions on suffering. Does it bring us to repentance Do you have a guardian angel If the righteous is scarcely saved what will become of the ungodly and sinner Peter Christian progress in godliness is small. He would not permit the demons to speak. Mark The whole demonic enterprise is by permission. With God all permissions have purposes. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. Romans Ponder ponder ponder who lives in you. No one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid which is Jesus Christ. Corinthians Another foundation is another gospel. Sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh for sin he condemned sin in the flesh. Romans His flesh. Our sin. Condemned. Joshua Are you for us or for our adversaries And he said No but I am the commander of the army of the Lord. Joshua John Calvin As soon as we raise our minds to heaven we there behold vast grounds of joy which dispel sadness. I waited patiently for the Lord he heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit. Psalm Saints pattern Pit. Patience. Cry. Rescue. My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Matthew But it is a yoke. And a burden. Soulrest makes labor light. The ordinances of the Lord are more to be desired than much fine gold sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Psa. The testimony of the Lord is sure making wise the simple. Psalm Hence thousands of ordinary Christians are wiser than many PhDs. The main use Ill make of Pipers Collected Works is using the index volume to remind myself what I thought. You guide me with your counsel and afterward you will receive me to glory. Psalm Guide me where To glory. If you are looking for latitude in religious claims you might want to avoid TGC next week. Tim Keesees th Dispatch releases today. Noel and I have watched them all. Beware if your life aim is comfort. I am continually with you you hold my right hand. Psalm Think of it The CreatorNot just with you but holding your hand. I have made the Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all your works. Psalm I get the protection you get the praise. Truly God is good to Israel to those who are pure in heart. Psalm . Not all Israel is Israel. We are by nature so illdisposed to Gods majesty that our capacities for boredom in the face of glory are breathtaking. It looks like a baby. So dont let it come out like that. The latest undercover Planned Parenthood video. It is a sign of spiritual oblivion to sightsee religious shrines and not feel heartbreak over the deception. May the King be like rain that falls on the mown grass. Psalm Be astonished at those who say they believe in God yet give him so little of their attention pursuing happiness. Was Paul crucified for you Corinthians Implying that keeping in mind this Jesushorror changes everything. How to read the book of Revelation. Look at the Book on Rev. . You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me. Psalm Ascribing sovereignty in pain implies power to save. From public fearlessness to prison freedom in Tehran Iran. Two women tell the good news everywhere. To old age and gray hairs O God do not forsake me until I proclaim your might to another generation. Psalm Sovereign To the end. With fear and great joy. Matthew Mary and Mary flying to tell the apostles He is alive. Make it as secure as you can. Matthew Pilate to the Pharisees about Jesus tomb. Right. Like make the sun as dark as you can. RT BJTabb Excited and grateful to receive an author copy of my first book. Whether you live more minutes or more years God decides. Plan long and entrust the next minutes to him. We are eternally secure not because perseverance in obedience is optional but because God is the one who decisively makes it happen. Blessed be the Lord who daily bears us up. Psalm Daily. He is not a God far off. Be conscious of his lifting. My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God. Psalm Yes but waiting is exactly the right thing to do. Sedition or cynicism are failure. As wax melts before fire so the wicked shall perish before God. Psalm Dont envy waxen wealth. The hour has come for you to wake from sleep. Romans Living in the world without Jesus is like being asleep. Life is but a dream. Every second of suffering in faith will be rewarded with a thousand ages of pleasure in fullness. Nick Roen downstream from exegesis testing how sweet the water is of samesex selfdenial with faithful friends. God designed every pleasure to communicate his beauty what this means for us now and forever. Say to God How awesome are your deeds Psalm For example the creation of the universe and the crucifixion of his Son. A Sunday afternoon enlargement of soul. Dislike anything that diminishes your inclination to give God glory for establishing the mountains. Psalm Learning to love the desert life. Where you cant have all you love. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God in all that you undertake. Deuteronomy And if you cant it may not be the thing yo do. It is because of the wickedness of these nations the Lord is driving them out before you. Not because of your righteousness. Deut. Hearing the commandments of God as sweetness to the soul. That is what it means to love God. John Those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs. Psalm But do not see them as signs. All our victories are losses and all our virtues are vices when theres no faith. minute video. Everything that is not God serves a purposes higher than itself. Nothing is superfluous. Nothing is an end in itself. Has anyone ever spit in your face Actually spit in your face And then hit you Could you be silent and remain still Matthew The molecular vastness you drink in a bottle of water is as incomprehensible as the cosmos. This changes things. It was not because you were more in number that the Lord set his love on you but it is because the Lord loves you. Deuteronomy Discern by staying near the clear and central. The Lord commanded us . . . to fear the Lord our God for our good always. Deuteronomy Continue in Gods kindness. Otherwise you will be cut off. Rom. Gods purpose in threatening the elect is to keep us in His kindness How Paul ends Ephesians. More grace in peace and love and faith. Look at the Book on Ephesians . They were broken off because of unbelief but you stand through faith. So do not become proud but fear. Romans Faithfull fear. Miss the counsels of hell Take heart all who are wistful for Screwtape. Hes back. Horrid advice. My soul clings to you. Psalm The soul has desperate hands. My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food. Psalm . As. Dont confuse body satisfaction and soul satisfaction. Compare them. Then all the disciples left him and fled. Matthew Judas. Peter. All. Us Lord dont let us follow Iceland. Dont let us kill our Down children. Tony Reinke on the beautiful and the beastly aspects of flirting. Should we pray with few words like Jesus says or should we pray without ceasing like Paul says Beware lest you say in your heart My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth. Deuteronomy No man can give the impression that he himself is clever and that Christ is mighty to save. James Denney The Whole Book of Peter in One Sentence. Look at the Book summing up all five chapters. Because your steadfast love is better than life my lips will praise you. Psalm You. Love does not await me. You await me. With love. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Romans Sender. Preacher. Hearing. Faith. Call. Salvation. Trust in him at all times O people pour out your heart before him God is a refuge for us. Psalm . This article is an overflow of my amazement at Gods diognositic and healing power by his word for the souls ills. Power belongs to God. Psalm Originally. Supremely. Decisively. Righteously. Mercifully. Finally. Hard marriages that persevere in faith against all odds proclaim a great truth about Christ and his church. God did not ordain the cross of Christ or create the lake of fire in order to communicate the insignificance of belittling his glory. Divine radiance does not make reality dull. With God we shall do valiantly it is he who will tread down our foes. Psalm Do you have a great adversary A huge obstacle Let God say on your behalf Upon Edom I cast my shoe. Psalm You have been faithful over a little I will set you over much. Matthew . The Master loaned him years wages. All here is little. All who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. Romans Led into war with his own sin v. . Led to cherish God as Abba v. . The hardest thing about apologizing for a sinful reaction is that it gives the impression that what you reacted to was not sinful. Do it. The ultimate essence of evil is preferring anything to God. Twoandahalf minutes at Passion . Surely there is a God who judges on earth. Psalm The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Psalm Wake up in this. Live in this. Go to bed in this. It is a sweet stability. The universe exists for us to use everything we have to display the supreme worth of God. You delivered my soul from death so I may walk before God in the light of life. Ps. Dont scorn deliverances by staying in the dark. How can fearing God and taking refuge in God be simultaneous Like hiding in a lions den If our culture hated divorce say like slavery Christians would not find as many justifications for it in the Bible as we do. You can watch the Front Porch life here now Gods Grace Creates a New Indestructible Family. Look at the Book on Peter . Do you trust Disney with your kids I will sing praises to you among the nations. Psalm The internet makes this possible for almost everybody today. You Or another way. David Mathis answers Martin Luthers debunking of the Epistle of James. The coming of Jesus will be like lightning from east to west. Matthew . Heres a good video commentary. This Friday night. College Church Wheaton. Sola. One night centered on God. If you have lived longer than a year God has delivered you from death times. With every breath you owe him everything. Be exalted O God above the heavens Let your glory be over all the earth Psalm This is the Lords Prayer in the Old Testament. Christian satire has a role to play a role limited by our greater gospel priorities. The one who endures to the end will be saved. Matthew Pray for the old who are ready to drop and for the young with miles to go. Is there good without God A minute video clip from Passion . Because lawlessness will be increased the love of many will grow cold. Matthew When the glacier comes torch it with holiness. Stand Firm In Grace It is more faithful than the rising sun. Look at the Book on Peter . My tribute to Samuel Zwemer the apostle to Islam. The wages of sin is death but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. Romans . Wagesgift. SinGod. Deatheternal life. On the gravestones of two daughters and in Bahrein Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive riches. Samuel Zwemer If God calls you and no board will send you bore a hole through the board and go anyway. My days of dancing are just around the corner and they will last forever. Yours are almost over and they will never come again. Luke Ethnic strife. Kingdoms in conflict. Famines. Earthquakes. The fallen world is in labor pains with the kingdom of God. Matthew You have kept count of my tossings put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book Psalm Compassion waits. It will come. Do you want to shine like stars Be done grumbling. It is astonishing that the apostles put such an emphasis here. Sometimes the biblical authors use material from outside the Bible. Why If the impenitent wicked live longer than half their days Psalm more time to sin will make them wish they hadnt Romans . Nancy Wilson on why God stretches moms As long as we live our prayer should be Use me Lord. Use me up Thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart. Romans Your obedience is owing to whom Christ being raised from the dead will never die again death no longer has dominion over him. Romans . Nor those in him. Do not present your members to sin. Romans If you are about to this tweet is Gods personal word to you. He has something better. If we were united with him in a death like his we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. Rom. Have you died First clean the inside of the cup and the plate that the outside also may be clean. Matthew . Not just sequence. MeansEnd. As sin reigned in death grace also reigns through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans minute video on weeping over a year old loss then washing your face and embracing the life God has given you. Which is greater the gold or the temple that makes it sacred. Matthew To Jesus gold is valuable not his gold but as temple gold. RT TonyReinke Since we have been justified by his blood much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. Romans Deny wrath. Deny cross. Tired drooping dragging churches need a sovereign God to move and revive. Oh Lord teach me how to live out my convictions. Unless of course they are not from you. In that case you may make me miserable See the man who would not make God his refuge but sought refuge in his own destruction Psalm We get the grace God gets the glory. Look at the Book on Peter . You are wrong because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God. Matt. This is a prescription for how not to go wrong. Wisdom. Is it time for Christians to withdraw from American culture Don Carson on our options and the Benedict Option. If David calls him Lord how is he his son Matthew . Silence. The First Day Without a Woman Six Ways the Church Can Stand with Women. May you experience the uplift that comes of being more sure of God than of anything else in the universe. Joy Guinness The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit a broken and contrite heart O God you will not despise. Psalm Am I materialist enough to resist materialism What if VR material ruins the glory of real material Why Im a baptist. The Mighty One God the Lord speaks and summons the earth. Psalm Humility throws open a thousand windows. How Long Must I Suffer Look at the Book on Peter . If you utter what is precious and not what is worthless you shall be as my mouth.Jeremiah . All Bible meaning is precious. See it. Jon Bloom Lord Free Me from the Fear of Death. The sequel to A Peculiar Glory releases in a month Reading the Bible Suprtnaturally. Even in Laughter the Heart May Ache. Twominute video on sorrowful yet always rejoicing. Be not afraid when a man becomes rich. For when he dies he will carry nothing away his glory will not go down after him. Psalm Man in his pomp yet without understanding is like the beasts that perish. Psalm So let us lower our noses red ties or blue. God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol for he will receive me. Psalm But against the saints the devil rages with velvet or claws. No one is more provocative with our precious relationships than Jesus. You cant hear this and stay neutral. You may need to stop giving your prodigal child money but never stop giving him your heart. No man can ransom another or give to God the price of his life for the ransom of their life is costly and can never suffice. Psalm kathiwestlund whose new book on prayer is unique just drew me into Mrs. Howard Taylor. That soul though all hell should endeavor to shakeIll never no never no never forsake. John Rippon Once more Never Let every kindred every tribe on this terrestrial ball to him all majesty ascribe and crown him Lord of all. Edward Perronet One who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces when it falls on anyone it will crush him. Matthew Passive or active he wins. Tell the next generation that this is God our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever. Psalm Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. Psalm Ponder what Jesus would call great praise. Our mother who art in heaven How firm a foundation ye saints of the LordIs laid for your faith in His excellent WordJohn Rippon Excellent Firm Twoandahalf minute video excerpt to show from the Bible how you can know you are a child of God. I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians both to the wise and to the foolish. Romans Freely you received. Freely give. He was declared Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead Jesus Christ our Lord. Rom. Throw Like a Girl Why Feminism Insults Real Women. The utterly pervasive providence of God. My eyes are ever toward the Lord. Psalm Who is the man who fears the Lord Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose. Psalm Humble reverence discerns the right. The God of All Grace. All Grace Look at the Book on Peter . For your names sake O Lord pardon my guilt. Psalm . Your sins are forgiven for his names sake. John Let lets live so that the natives will want to meet our King. A three minute video devotional. What does the Shack say to your pain Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions according to your steadfast love remember me. Psalm The growth of the church has always been in spite of. With regard to this sect we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Acts The dedication to his mother was worth the whole book to me. And you get the book thrown in. The Curious Christian. The world does not need cool Christians who are culturally saturated. It needs exiles with the scent of heaven and the aroma of Christ. Jonathan Parnell on his new book. And more. What leads Christians away from Christ. And how not to go there. When Satan shoots a fiery arrow of disillusionment at you fight back. Let my sons have highest honors in your kingdom she said. Jesus replied You do not know what you are asking. Matthew Observed duties maintain our credit but secret duties maintain our life. Jonathan Edwards How to fight the devil. Look at the Book on Peter . Hallelujah what a SaviorHallelujah what a FriendSaving helping keeping lovingHe is with me to the end. Wilbur Chapman Lord prepare me to end well. Whatever it takes. Scientific explanation is simply the helpful description of the latest layer of unfathomable mysteries. In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Psalm When you are full to the brim you will spill when bumped. What do people feel acid or grace How the ruse of legalism creates a gunfree zone in the battle with lust. Wormwoodwisdom for small groups. Receive Jesus as your precious Savior perfect Lord and infinite Treasure. Preachers Theres enough glory in the Word. Add nothing artificial. Eat till your heart is full. Then serve that banquet for your people. You shall treat the one who sojourns with you as the native and love him as yourself for you were strangers in Egypt. Leviticus Let those who suffer according to Gods will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. Peter Not accuse Him. Lets sing songs that will help us die. May every cry I cant When yet in fact I must Become by grace He can And then in Him I trust. If you needed a stone would he give you bread Or if you needed a snake would he give you a fish O all ye who passe by behold and seeMan stole the fruit but I must climbe the tree.George Herbert I am drawn back again and again to the sermons of Jonathan Edwards to rescue me from the spiritual strangle hold of small things. God calleth preaching folly. Do not grudgeTo pick out treasures from an earthen pot.George Herbert New Video Clip What Is the Deepest Root of Your Joy Christian Hedonism in Two Minutes. Something in us starts to die when infinitely valuable realities are handled without feelings and words of wonder and exultation. Christ is magnified as a glorious treasure when he becomes our unrivaled pleasure. Philippians . Using the same key to the longedfor breakthrough that Jesus did. I am immortal until Gods work for me to do is done. Henry Martyn Why are you cast down O my soul and why are you in turmoil Hope in God for I shall again praise him my help and my God. Psalm Jesus to Paul I am sending you to open their eyes. Acts . It is awesome and full of hope that Jesus makes us means of a miracle. Can Satan Devour Christians Look at the Book on Peter . Spugeon on Psalm . Forget your fathers house and the king will desire your beauty. I will satisfy the weary soul and every languishing soul I will replenish. Jeremiah How does God preserve our faith by threatening its existence through trials May those who love your salvation say continually Great is the Lord Psalm He drew me up from the pit of destruction out of the miry bog and set my feet upon a rock making my steps secure. Psalm So often Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Matthew Transparent unashamed dependence on daddy. Satan has dirt on everyone without exception. Dont let him blackmail you with this. Thats why Christ died. How does Christs return relate to the timing of the millennium O Lord make me know my end and what is the measure of my days let me know how fleeting I am Psalm We have found this man a plague. Acts Pauls reputation among those he so longed to win. Kept by God Day by Day. Look at the Book on Peter . The Lord loves justice he will not forsake his saints. Psalm Ive written a foreword for a new book on Jewishness and Christianity. It has stirred serious longings. If you do not discern the glory of God where you are either your heart is becoming hard or youre in the wrong place. Exodus minute video on what Joshua means when it commands us to be strong and fearless. If they had prayed that the mountain of murder against Jesus be cast into the sea it would not have been. Yet what seemed more loving I am ready to fall and my pain is ever before me. I confess my iniquity I am sorry for my sin. Psalm Five reasons this is a wonderful time to be a Christian in America. Can we see God Five verses say no. Three say yes. Putting together the evidence. Seeing and savoring God should not be separated. We must see in order to savor. And if we see and do not savor we insult. I have seen a wicked ruthless man spreading himself like a green laurel tree. But he passed away and was no more. Psalm Because of density depth and pervasiveness of spiritual wisdom and insight you simply cannot read John Owen too slowly. Lords Day delight. What will it profit a man if he gains the world and forfeits his soul Or what shall a man give in return for his soul Matthew Jumpstart Your Heart in Worship. Three Lessons from Calvin. Preaching aims Not minutes twice that. Not immediately practical eternally helpful. Not relaxed or relaxing passionate and provoking. What does Proverbs mean that those who seek the Lord understand justice completely This is how to probe. Commit your way to the Lord trust in him and he will act. Psalm Ponder this This very day he will act on your behalf. Trust him The wicked borrows but does not pay back but the righteous is generous and gives. Psalm Let you first reflex be to give not keep. minute video on my fathers key to a happy life. The sentence that changed the world I am Jesus of Nazareth whom you are persecuting. Acts Besides the Georgia Dome dwellers from last January there may be a few thousand of you who would like to sing along. Not wanting to hog a good thing which I use every day with thanks heres a free way into that good thing. An adulterous generation seeks for a sign. Matthew Hoping there isnt one to prove its spiritual adultery. I persecuted this Way to the death binding and delivering to prison both men and women. Acts Men and women To death Our Paul As I read the OT and Romans I cant escape the truth that Gods covenant with ethnic Israel is irrevocable. The river of the water of life flows bright as crystal from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Rev. We dont earn life we drink it. minute video clip on why disobedience to Gods prohibition to eat the tree was not the essence of the Fall. A rational man prefers his eternal before his temporal interest. Jonathan Edwards Stay alert against Satan. Look at the Book on Peter Fake it till He makes it. Loving when you dont feel like it without being a hypocrite. This is good. Great is the Lord who delights in the welfare of his servant Psalm Serve him he will always have your back. It is his greatness. Sam Allberry on being samesex attracted and bullied in his Synod for affirming the Biblical vision of marriage. minute video on how hope produces joy which produces hope which produces more joy which produces more hope. Damnable legalism cant hold a candle to hell when it comes to something to be freed from. So lets get real and make much of the gospel. All of the plenary sessions of the Bethlehem Conference for Pastors are now in final form and available free at Poetry is a discovery of the statistic of one. Clyde Kilby Our joy in a God is designed by him to expand as we disciple others into our delights in him. Your judgments are like the great deep. Ps. . Your thoughts are very deep Ps.. Oh the depth of knowledge of God Rom. Use multiple translations but find a goto Bible for meditation and memorization. Oh taste and see that the Lord is good Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him Psalm The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing he frustrates the plans of the peoples. Psalm China to Chile. U.S. to U.A.E. How are women saved through childbearing Look at the Book on Timothy DG releases today a book of readings grace for the messes of marriage. Couples maybe read out loud together. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Psalm Jesus Whoever loves a future spouse more than me is not worthy of me. You dont have to be married to be happy. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. Psalm How many rising suns on idolatrous nations How many billion breaths What does Doug Wilson sound like when the scalpel is sharp but not serrated Like this. May Mr. Pence receive it. Love the Lord all you his saints Psalm Such Spiritgiven commands are Gods design to keep the love of saints alive. Hear O Lord and be merciful to me O Lord be my helper Psa. Trust him for specific help today. He is merciful. He will help you. Deep joy in its poignancy it is closer to sorrow than it is to mirth. Even when our pain is the result of our sin God has a good purpose and purifying design in it. Where did this man Jesus get this wisdom Matthew . years sawing logs meditating on Scripture and praying with a pure heart. My failures in ministry are partly responsible for whatever depth there may be in my ministry. Ajith Fernando The day comes when Gods purpose for us to praise him on the earth is over. Till then we make our case Will the dust praise you Ps. Grace God willing good for the undeserving and working that will. Acts Corinthians Philippians Corinthians RT MattSmethurst Pastors parents worship leaders Are you teaching any songs that can be sung acapella around a hospital bed in year The voice of the Lord is powerful the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. Psalm . O preacher let this voice be heard Why a failure loves Jesus. Warning Its a poem. Heaven and earth may fade and fleeFirstborn light in gloom declineBut while God and I shall beI am His and He is mine.G.W. Robinson Apollos greatly helped those who through grace had believed. Acts Through grace had believed. Through grace had believed. Treating Christian faith as a leap into the unknown is no tribute to one who has made himself unmistakably known by a peculiar glory. Jesus Whoever does the will of my Father is my brother and sister and mother. Matthew So we get a big Brother and protective Son. Lord make me more bold Yes. Something greater than Solomon is here. Matthew The Origin and Measure and Aim of all wisdom is greater than the wisest man. The text I couldnt think of. Isaiah . Fear not you worm Jacob. The glory of vermicular theology. I have a dog named Dusty and shes a parable on four legs. The Lord is my strength and my shield in him my heart trusts and I am helped. Psalm God is not served by human hands as though he needed anything since he himself gives to all men life breath and everything. Acts Are you a passive Christian Look at the Book on Peter . If it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Matthew No Words No Gospel. minute video clip to deny the pop saying Preach the gospel use words if you have to. The Bible does not tell us how to do surgery so as not to kill the patient but it does tell us how to do it so as to please God. Christ our Passover lamb has been sacrificed. Corinthians With a month to live how would you hear I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Psalm This is a wise and penetrating application of the Joseph story to the hopeless pattern of parentblaming. Seven reasons to never send a nude selfie. The Lord is the stronghold of my life of whom shall I be afraid Though an army encamp against me my heart shall not fear. Psalm Perhaps sometime in your small group would want to mark the th anniversary of the Reformation this way. John Sailhamers memorial service is now available at YouTube. This is a wonderful gift. Can my respect for Thabiti Anyabwile get any deeper Well maybe tomorrow there will be another new act of courage These Jews were more noble they received the word eagerly examining the Scriptures to see if these things were so. Acts How not to battle anxiety. Look at the Book on Peter Is money the root of all evil not just all kinds of evil as all modern translations unfortunately suggest If you had known what this means I desire mercy and not sacrifice you would not have condemned the guiltless. Matthew At midnight Paul and Silas were singing hymns to God. Acts Beaten imprisoned they were not qestioning God but singing to him. Thunder will cease and there will be no more hail that you may know the earth is the Lords. Exodus Embace this before the hail. Sirs what must I do to be saved And they said Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved you and your household. Acts Virtually all of the Bible calls for our response. Praise God thank God cry to God confess to God . . . A bruised reed he will not break and a smoldering wick he will not quench until he brings justice to victory. Matthew Is there a truth more deeply felt than GoneIn time after the dark of weeping Dawn. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me for I am gentle and lowly in heart you will find rest for your souls. Matthew Soulrest. O that every believer in Christ would be tested this way to know if we treasure Christ or just identify with a tr No one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Matt. Ponder this word chooses then pray. RT desiringGod The Spirit provides power for Gods mission. Apart from his work eyes persist in blindness and ears remain deaf. It will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for Capernaum. Matthew Degrees of severity in hell. Twominute video clip on what biblical churches keep doing during exclusionary refugee policies. Let those who suffer according to Gods will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. Peter If the righteous is scarcely saved what will become of the ungodly and the sinner Peter How do you Super Bowl The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him and he makes known to them his covenant. Psalm For your names sake O Lord pardon my guilt for it is great. Psalm A haunting paragraph from Fredrick Douglass. All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies. Psalm Was Jesus a Christian Hedonist The Lord opened Lydias heart to give heed to what was said by Paul. Acts This is how all Christians were brought to faith. There has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. Matthew Do I Have Any Righteousness of My Own Look at the Book on Romans . Put your baby in the bulrushes with faith and Pharaohs daughter may pay you to nurse him Evodus Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. God saw the people of Israeland God knew. Exodus Such an explosive knowledge True compassion is costly and flows with deep joy. The Hebrew midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them. Exodus Here are the videos of the plenary sessions from the Bethlehem conference for pastors which just ended today. The earth is the Lords and the fullness thereof the world and those who dwell therein. Psalm Yahweh owns every person and place. Gospel Depths. Global gospel Worship. Video and audio. Who is the King of glory Yahweh of hosts he is the King of glory. Psalm Having all glory. Over all glory. Source of all glory. We need black history month. So many good reasons. Dont try to be cool. And dont try to be uncool. Get free from the herd mentality. The Bethlehem conference for Pastors live stream now. Dare to be true. Nothing can need a lieA fault which needs it most grows two thereby.George Herbert I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Matthew Four Reasons God Hates Pride. Look at the Book on Peter . If winter come to Zion then may I pray the shivering saints at least be warmed by the flames of our suffering. When to forsake heavenContinence hath his joy weigh both and soIf rottennesse have more let Heaven go.George Herbert The Village Church Dallas just released a new resources site. Lots of riches here. The messages at the Cross Conference on missions were unusually powerful. Suggestion Bookmark this and soak slowly. Actually a careful definition of words would transform left and right and the whole world beyond recognition. The slave trade was always unjustifiable but inattention and interest prevented for a time the evil from being perceived. John Newton Do not take an oath by your head for you cannot make one hair white or black. Matthew Your head is not yours to pledge. Thirty Seconds Alone with God The Effect of Our Phones on Prayer. Will some people in heaven have more joy than others A look at the key texts behind the surprising answer. Truly I say to you until heaven and earth pass away not an iota not a dot will pass from the Law until all is accomplished. Matthew Why in the world would you speak to a stadium full of nice students about the ultimate essence of evil Invitation to read ones workTurn their eyes hither who shall make a gainTheirs who shall hurt themselves or me refrain. Herbert Sing like men. What greater insult to God can a man be guilty of than to refuse to read the letter God sends him from heaven JC Ryle RT desiringGod As the sun sets on our lives lets enjoy God even more. His promises are more precious every day. Lyrics Change Laws. How Music and Poetry Might End Abortion. This is the kind of writing we should pay for Happens to be by a woman R. Merkle for women. But listen up men. Say always when you open your Bible O God for Christs sake give me the teaching of the Spirit. JC Ryle RT McCormickProf The way to fight terrorists is not by closing our doorsor heartsto their victims. Jesus Whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Matthew Jesus Everyone who acknowledges me before men I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. Matthew If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul how much more will they malign those of his household. Matthew years ago today the book Desiring God arrived in my hands. Trembling heres what I wrote in my journal. God has visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name. Acts No hope apart from this sovereign taking. Loved ones are looking down on us truth or fiction He made no distinction between us and them having cleansed their hearts by faith. Acts . The path to ethnic harmony. Can one helping of divine promise survive five hundred feedings Vigorous exercise and the rise of virtuous joy. Intersections. When they hand you over do not be anxious what you are to say for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour. Matthew Clothe Yourself in Humility Daily. Look at the Book on Peter Through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. Acts . This must is the same as the necessary of Peter . You received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. Thessalonians Spirit of God minus comfort of world . And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Acts O Christian believer are you amazed that your faith came from this I have made you a light for the Gentiles that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. Acts This could be you Listen. Compare God to the biggest things in the universe. Did the authors of Scripture know they were writing Gods inspired words When you thrust aside the word of a God you judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life. Acts Some trust in chariots and some in horses but we trust in the name of the Lord our God. Psalm Does God Reward Pastors Look at the Book on Peter . First Herod gave man credit for Gods work and killed them. Then he took credit for Gods work and died. Acts . If someone thinks too highly of you it will be wise to direct their attention the glory of God. Acts Video on how God uses the arts in the cause of creating a culture of life. John Ensor Matthew West your truly. Christians never need to fear. Because for those who trust him God will always bring to safety or bring to glory. Matthew If you lose all but Christ you still have what is most valuable and the one who supplies all you really need. Philippians Is your conscience captive to God R..C Sproul. Yes motherhood is hard. And full of manifold glories. Not many more important topics. Not many better teachers. What sort of man is this that even winds and sea obey him Matthew You cannot answer this correctly and ever be the same again. When I awake I shall be satisfied with your likeness. Psalm Likeness in your word your world your Son. Whatever reveals you. Joy After the prolife rally at the Capitol in St. Paul at some of us will pray at Planned Parenthood from t The word of the Lord proves true he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. Psalm What did Jonathan Edwards say to those who feel asleep in church You can read or listen to my effort to show that we allprolife and prochoiceknow we are killing children. They glorified God saying Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life. Acts Easytoread MN Dept of Health report on abortion here. Find out how many abortions each clinic does. PP one half. of Planned Parenthood services abortions like of a steakhouse services steak if you count salt shakers. Most of the brothers becoming confident in the Lord by my imprisonment are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Phil. If youd like to join us well be praying tomorrow at at Planned Parenthood after the rally at the Capitol. The Lord rescued me from my strong enemy. Psalm Times innumerable minute video from Humble Beast and Desiring God Propaganda Sho Baraka Jackie HillPerry. Woman. Person. Life. After watching the inauguration Desiring God gathered for prayer. We prayed for the president. I love you O Lord my strength. Psalm Say this out loud. Look him in the eye as you say it. As you pray with someone say this. Digital health emerges from personal authenticity. Tony Reinke on smart phones and FOMO. To Jesus all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. Acts How to Live Under an Unqualified President. My attempt as an exile to find my bearings in this America. Presidents are footnotes in history. Christ is the sum of all history. Getting ready for tomorrow. The kings heart is a stream of water in the hand of the LORD he turns it wherever he will. Proverbs Frst take the log out of your own eye and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brothers eye. Matthew How not to lead to church Look at the Book on Peter . You make known to me the path of life in your presence is fullness of joy at your right hand are pleasures forevermore.Psalm Walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit the church was multiplied. Acts O for such fearfull comfort. At Damascus Saul traded the wrath of God for his smile and the smile of friends for their wrath. Acts Theology Can Blind You to God Six Warning Signs. Three days. No light. No food. No water. A fitting physical crisis for the spiritual cataclysm of Sauls soul on seeing the risen Christ. If your child has abandoned Christ dont despair. Pray and act in faith. Rage against Christ and Christians was as natural to Saul as breathing. Acts So deep did the change have to go. Whatever it takes Lord increase my capacity to love. Jesus You cannot serve God and money. Matthew Does the great apostle Peter practice what he preaches Look at the Book on Peter Jacob pleads the promise. I fear Esau that he may come and attack me. But you O Lord said I will surely do you good. Genesis Martin Luther Kings final two minutes of his final speech. Prophetic in more ways than one. When you pray do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Matthew Pride poisons ethnic harmony. A minute video. Pray then like this Our Father in heaven hallowed be your name. Matthew Our first desire That God be revered trusted treasured. Our dinner tables are a premier place where racism comes to die. But I have trusted in your steadfast love my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. Psalm Glorifying Christ and seeking the glory that comes from Christ are not conflicted aims. Heres why. May your silver perish with you because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money Acts Vileness is exalted among the children of man. Psalm Have we become numb Can we even feel this word In the Lord I take refuge. How can you say to my soul Flee like a bird Psalm Do you stand in the Lord Or flee like bird To converse with God in solitary places. Pondering Edwards counsel for solitude. I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. Genesis How much more surely may we trust his presence in Christ How to miss Jesus in the Bible. minute video. My tribute to John Sailhamer . Why his was a great life. The Lord is righteous he loves righteous deeds the upright shall behold his face. Psalm The pure in heart shall see God. O Lord you hear the desire of the afflicted you will strengthen their heart. Psalm The heart of faith collapses without it. They could not withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking. Acts . So they killed him. Effective communication Full of the Spirit and wisdom Acts . Full of faith and the Holy Spirit Acts . Full of grace and power Acts . Stephen What to do when God is silent. Look at the Book on Acts . The Bibles teaching on manhood and womanhood is meant to be liberating and satisfying not troubling. Put them in fear O Lord Let the nations know that they are but men Psalm And that there is a God who reckons. In the pride of his face...all his thoughts are There is no God. Psalm A whole way of thinking that leaves God out. Not rare. Those who know your name put their trust in you for you O Lord have not forsaken those who seek you. Psalm . Know him. Know him They rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. Acts Ponder this Worth being dishonored. Look The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people. Acts The word of God is not bound. When the Clemson victory is the best day ever but not as good as it should be. Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life. Acts . Love these words for your life. Tell them often. There are shalls and wills in Gods treasury for every condition. J. C. Ryle. Lazy leisure ruins ministries kills marriages and corrodes souls. It is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. Hebrews . Get a sense of what it is like to be strong by grace. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Hebrews The Chosen Choose God. Look at the Book on Acts . No one can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. James . What is impossible with man is possible with God. Ananias and Sapphira dropped dead for greedmotivated lying. Great fear came upon the whole church. Acts This New Covenant reality. The pride of your heart has deceived you. Obadiah Humility is the path of truth. What it means for me to be a diffident Jonathan Edwards wannabe as I read my Bible. Praise for Sweeneys new book. Jesus began to preach saying Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew If your marriage will make God look glorious you must find more satisfaction in God than in your marriage. God to Abimelech king of Gerar It was I who kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch Sarah. Genesis Lets help Tony Reinke write one of the most authoritative and insightful assessments of Christians and entertainme Happy birthday William Solomon Hottle Piper . Nine in heaven. My affection and admiration and thankfulness remai O Lord our Lord how majestic is your name in all the earth You have set your glory above the heavens. Psalm RT AnnVoskamp Powerfully prophetically prayerfully what BethMooreLPM said to this generation Passion. Carve this like an anthem Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Mt. Hence sanctifying preaching is our weekly fare. Heaven flowed upon the soul in many dreams of high desire. Tenneson. Yes. Heaven. Soul. High desire. Preaching. Poetry. Does Matthew justify divorce In peace I will lie down and sleep for you alone O Lord make me dwell in safety. Psalm There are pills. But only one Protector. A new . minute devotional video. We Can Do Nothing. Lots of you use Solid Joys. This turns them into video. Whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed for God made man in his own image. Genesis Unconditional election. Look at the Book on Acts . Offer right sacrifices and put your trust in the Lord. Psalm This side of the cross offer your body Romans then trust. The Lord added to their number those who were being saved. Acts From the start the word saved described conversion to Christ. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding. John No true grasp of reality without him. This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come the same way as you saw him go into heaven. Acts Yes. Come Lord Jesus. At what point am I holy enough to take holy communion Jesus Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one. John Nor will he ever. God bring me back to you. Look at the Book on Lamentations . The Lord spoke to Manasseh and to his people but they paid no attention. Chronicles The consequences of this were horrific. When you have been S wept up into the arms of Jesus all previous efforts to jump in seem vain. This is eternal life that they know you the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. John To know him is to live. Jehoshaphat went out among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim and brought them back to the Lord. Chronicles The Lord your God is gracious and merciful and will not turn away his face from you if you return to him. Chronicles How is Amazing Grace a New Years hymn The story behind John Newtons writing it. If you didnt expect to enter single youre not alone. I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. John Recommended biographies by and about women. I love good biography. They will make war on the Lamb and the Lamb will conquer them for he is Lord of lords and King of kings. Revelation Prophecy from Jesus for In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart I have overcome the world. John Resolutions Few. Specific. Realistic. Rewarded. Watched over. Prayed over. A high and holy aim for Desire a thousand times more to be godly than to seem so. Richard Baxter The ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me but I do as the Father has commanded me. John No one takes his life. Why I am not entering afraid of Satan. Its a picture of Hebrews by Chris Powers. My anger is hot against the shepherds for the Lord cares for his flock. Zechariah . The pastorate is not a safe place for unbelief. Does calling Bible Reading a must in imply salvation by worksthe work of Bible reading We love what we see John . And we love to say it to millions Ps. . I invite you to join us. RT desiringGod Should Christian teens use social media and if so what advice would you give them A sense of satisfied joy comes over me when finally I read of a king. He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. Chronicles Heres a gathering of some of the most read and watched and listenedto posts at Desiring God in . The household gods utter nonsense and the diviners see lies they tell false dreams and give empty consolation. Zechariah The chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well. John . If truth is denied sooner or later the evidence must be killed. Unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies it remains alone but if it dies it bears much fruit. John Dodging one major pitfall in our social media. The whole earth marveled as they followed the beast. Revelation Being marvelous and globally popular does not bode well for Mr. B. Eighty priests who were men of valor withstood King Uzziah and said Go out of the sanctuary for you have done wrong. Chronicles Six parts of a Christian worldview. Look at the Book on Peter . But when Uzziah became strong he grew proud to his destruction. Chronicles . Strength. Pride. Destruction. Jesus died to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. John As the Father sent me so I send you. You do not believe because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice. John Believer before belief you were his sheep. Show kindness and mercy to one another and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart. Zechariah Between and of single missionaries are women. So where are the men This horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them. Daniel . Will you judge the truth of God by the defeats of his people All the Cross Conference plenary sessions will be live streamed starting with Trip Lee at EST. Join us. Alcohol overcomes inhibitions. Paul commands an alternative way. The personalityblowing surprise is that you sing. The one who conquersI will be God to him and he will be my son. Revelation While the world threatens the Christian serves. Look at the Book on Peter It is so good to read a yearend Biblesaturated spiritually mature call to prayer. No one ever spoke like this man John I would like to invite you to enjoy a ministry of the Holy Spirit that is very precious to me. I explain here. From to I was my folks contrary sonI bit my fathers hand right throughAnd broke my mothers heart in two.John Masefield Some men are too embarrassed to say Jesus is beautiful. But they shouldnt be heres why. Deal courageously and may the Lord be with the upright Chronicles What kind of scarlet bloodDoes thisdo you not knowSoaks garments dark with mudAnd makes them white as snowRevelation In this the love of God was manifest among us that God sent his only Son into the world so that we might live through him. John Taste this morning the fruit of what Christ came to do. We repose in sweet tranquillity and are quiet from the fear of evil. Matthew Henry Our best efforts in the past several years to mark this amazing day. May the born crucified risen Christ meet you. The Word was with God and the Word was God. . . And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. John . With God. Was God. Became man. minute animation of the gospel of the incarnation. Maybe your beloved unbeliever would watch it. Lord do you hear my prayersMy heart and how I yearnI do and all your caresNow on my altar burn. Seven reasons to worship on Christmas. Look at the Book on Luke . My judgment is just because I seek not my own will but the will of him who sent me. John Willing Gods will is the key to justice. This is true. And if it were deeply and widely believed in the church the Christian life would become serious. God promises that you will have all the money you need to do his will Phil. which may be none Rev. . Are you OK with that Jon Bloom illumines the ways of God by pointing us to the unexpected ways of Christhis whole life. Those who endeavour to do the church any service must expect to be pushed at with horns. Matthew Henry The friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly at the bridegrooms voice. John Yes For centuries. Is it a time for you to dwell in your paneled houses while Gods house lies in ruins Haggai Put Gods people before your panneling. If Isaiah said Messiah would be called Immanuel why did they mane him Jesus Look at the Book on Matthew . Poet and artist Jackie Hill Perry on sexuality and every part of us under God. minute video. He took our nature in Bethlehem to die our death in Jerusalem. Christmas and the Cross. Behold I am knocking. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come in to him and eat with him and he with me. Revelation Jesus Those whom I love I reprove and discipline so be zealous and repent. Revelation This Mathis meditation on the incarnation took me where I needed to be. Jesus came to reconcile us to himself. Nancy Guthrie on What Grieving People Wish You Knew at Christmas. The men of Judah prevailed because they relied on the Lord. Chronicles Tons of babies in swaddling cloths. Only one in a manger. Vaneethas minute video meditation. O sons of Israel do not fight against the Lord the God of your fathers for you cannot succeed. Chronicles RT CROSScon Online registration for CROSS is closed but we will have onsite registration Join us next week in Indy Did not our hearts burn within us while he opened to us the Scriptures Luke When the asbestos layer of worldliness is taken away. Knowing and working with Don Carson has been one of the great joys are my life. Be faithful unto death and I will give you the crown of life. Revelation The very best hymns mingle sorrow and joy like this one. Jesus I died and behold I am alive forevermore and I have the keys of Death and Hades. Revelation Jesus Christ is the faithful witness the firstborn of the dead and ruler of kings on earth. Revelation See him above every ruler. Gods miraculous virgin conception. Special Christmas Look at the Book on Matthew . If you are the Christ tell us. Jesus said From now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God. Luke Biblical zeal aka passion is not a personality trait. While Peter was still speaking the rooster crowed. And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. Luke . Dont turn from this look. Pray that you may not enter into temptation. Luke . Pray that you may not enter into temptation. Like No fig no fruit no olive no food no flock no herd. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. Habakkuk . Where your treasure is. . . . Has God caused you at this last minute to dream with us what Cross might mean for your next fifty years Santa Claus Is he harmless fun or a tragic distraction Send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God. For they have gone out for the sake of the name. John . Godcentered sending. RT WePreachChrist Price increase at midnight tonight. Dont miss it Gospel Ambition Advancing the Gospel Deep Wide BCSPasCon ht What profit is an idol. For its maker trusts in his own creation . Habakkuk Blessed be his glorious name forever may the whole earth be filled with his glory Amen and Amen Psalm Whoever does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. John . The mark of having Gods love is loving Christs word. This is love that we walk according to his commandments. John Only when this order has shaped you can you flipflop the clauses. RT RevKevDeYoung Registration for CROSS a missions conference for students closes in HOURS so register now The Son of God has come and has given us understanding. John Apart from him all truth is darkness. This is the testimony that God gave us eternal life. John . Being alive to the being and beauty of God is how you know hes real. Everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him. John . Treasuring our Father includes treasuring what he treasures. The constant coexistence of anguish Romans and joy Philippians means intermittent unbidden sobs and laughter. Another scene from Bethlehem after the slaughter of the infants. Imagine how the parents survived. If our glorified bodies tremble in heaven it will be to intensify our joy in God forever. Read the Gospels. Note every line. Every line about Jesus. Everything he said. Then ask Do I believe in this Christ Or a modern remake The Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. Luke . If you would end as loved you must start as lost. Saved Through the Fire of Suffering Look At The Book on Peter . This commandment we have from him whoever loves God must also love his brother. John Must. Like fire must be hot. And ice cold. He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. John Is he in you In you Is the Greatest Being in the universe in you A mustard seed of faith is infinitely closer to being a mountain of faith than it is to being no faith. God be merciful to me a sinner I tell you this man went down to his house justified. Luke If sin caused the pregnancy is the pregnancy a sin It would be better if a millstone were hung on his neck and he were cast into the sea than that he cause a little one to sin. Luke We made a minute film to celebrate the faithfulness of God in Vaneethas life. Take heart in your fiery trials. Who is able to build him a house since heaven even highest heaven cannot contain him Chronicles Your suffering Christian is not eternal. Look at the Book on Peter . Faithful words from Ed Stetzer on the increasing number of evangelicals who approve of suicide. If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. Luke Blind is blind. If you believe in hell this question needs an answer. Is the gospel Trust me or Ill hurt you Ditto David Platts oneminute video invitation to the Cross conference between Christmas and New Years. Will not God give justice to his elect who cry to him day and night Will he delay long over them Luke RT BarnabasPiper Its not quite real but its almost real. curiouschristian See what kind of love the Father has given us that we should be called children of God. John Implications of being a child of God If your brother sins rebuke him and if he repents forgive him. Luke Even seven times in the same day. What if you have turned away from God because you saw that nonChristians were happy and good I spent six months listening to the audiobook of one biography. It was worth every minute. The Pharisees were lovers of money. Luke And all the while we thought they were hard core religious legalists. They devoured widows. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. Micah If we walk in the light we have fellowship with one another and the blood of Jesus Gods Son cleanses us from all sin. John Matthew Westerholms biblical and theological reflections on disappointment in worship services. Come be bold and courageous and dont be afraid to disobey sin.Jonathan Edwards What to do when youre twenty. Or seventy. Life really can be worthy of the One who called you. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad for your brother was dead and is alive he was lost and is found. Luke Beautifully fitting When the prodigal son came to himself Luke he came home to His Father. Knowing self and knowing God fall and rise together. In your hand are power and might and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. Chronicles God is raising up new and powerful globallyoriented reformed teaching and training ministries. This is one. Lord please have me excused from your banquet. For I have been married wife and cannot come. Luke Marriage as idolatry. Bring her Five biblical reasons I love the truth of unconditional election. A minute message. Invite the poor the crippled the lame the blind and you will be blessed because they cannot repay you. Luke . Blessed. Repaid Can we do whatever we want in heavenFirst we must ask What does it mean to be free Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke If any of you single women are looking for more heroes Helen Roseveare just finished her course. She is a gift It is sound wisdom to fear your name O Lord. Micah Look at the Book on Peter . God is at work in your suffering. What does the Lord require but to do justice and to love kindness and to walk humbly with your God Micah Love kindness not just do. In anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey. Micah All the nations know at a deep level. They know. Israels heads judge for a bribe its priests teach for a price its prophets divine for money. Micah God hates ministryformoney. You shall bow down no more to the work of your hands. Micah Instead to the one who made your hands. Gospel Ambition. Bethlehem Conference for Pastors. I would love to see you and your team. Price increase Dec. . Rarely does God bring direction to a life docked in the harbor of leisure. I can lay down with comfort at night unsolicitous whether I wake in this world or another Augustus Toplady. Admire Admire Admire Unto all eternity admire The theme of John Eliots ministry to Native Americans in . Serve God with a whole heart and with a willing mind for the Lord searches all hearts and understands every thought. Chronicles If the Father judged Jesus on our behalf doesnt that mean that we wont be No. Look at the Book on Peter Go and tell that fox Behold I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow and the third day I finish my course. Luke Writhe and groan You shall go to Babylon. . . . There you shall be rescued. Micah First retribution. Then rescue. May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and Jesus our Lord. Peter Grace and peace experienced in knowledge. Woe to you For you load people with burdens hard to bear and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. Luke Often a bridesmaid never a bride. Why Learn from a history of advertising. O the value of having The Treasure The four ways we quench the Holy Spirit in our lives. A swept and ordered heart unfilled with the glory of Christ lays a welcome mat for evil spirits. Luke Whoever is not with me is against me. Luke There is no neutral zone. There is only a line. You are on one side or the other. If one should say I will preach to you of wine and strong drink he would be the preacher for this people. Micah Chameleon criers. C. J. Mahaney is one of the most thoughtful wellprepared interviewers Ive ever enjoyed. And I did enjoy it. You shall not walk haughtily. Micah Test every prophetic voice with this. Now many nations are assembled against you. But they do not know the thoughts of the Lord they do not understand his plan. Micah If you suffer according to Gods will entrust your soul to a faithful Creator while doing good. Peter Pain you will not stop me. Is Masturbation sin Jason DeRouchies ten biblical reflections. Wise. Compelling. Hopefilled. If you are insulted for Christ you are blessed for the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. Peter Dont forfeit this blessing. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. Peter Put down the drawbridge of your castle and turn on the light. Amazing. now integrates with over translations of the Bible. Blessed be his glorious name forever may the whole earth be filled with his glory Amen and Amen Psalm Do believers who die from exposure or starvation prove Gods promises false The pride of your heart has deceived you. Obadiah Dont expect truth from the lips of a proud soul. How about gathering the family tonight and for days read and pray everyone into a great readiness for Christmas. Martha is preparing a feast for Jesus. Mary is feasting on the words of Jesus. Both can be good. Only one is indispensable. Luke Unashamed Look at the Book on Peter . If you must choose between Bible and breakfast choose Bible. And grab an energy bar. Then plan better. Man shall not live by bread alone. You have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Luke The harvest is plentiful. Luke Advent readings start tomorrow. Lets do this. Its not too late because you can download free. Leave the dead to bury their dead. But go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Luke How much radical Pauline theology is rooted here Ever glad to see Andrew Wilson release a fusillade of Scriptures to put things right. Hope it matters to SH and AJ. RT CROSScon Our death died at the cross. It did not faint. It died. Conrad MbeweRegistration for CROSS closes We become heirs of all the Old Testament promises through our union with Christ. Whoever receives this child in my name receives me and receiving me receives him who sent me. Luke . In my name is wildly powerful. All were astonished at the majesty of God. Luke . This experience is how you know you are seeing what you are reading in the Gospels. Mind your own business. You wouldnt expect Peter to list this with Dont murder. Look at the Book on Peter . Students And those who love them. Would you pray over these five reasons Kevin DeYoung gives for coming to Cross. A voice came out of the cloud This is my Son my Chosen One listen to him. Luke .Thus we honor the Father and the Son. Listen. When they became fully awake they saw his glory. Luke . Until we see the glory of God we are sleepwalking. If you dont have a good handle on the history leading up to the birth of Jesus heres a short helpful overview. For all the times we have chosen sin over holiness we deserve to be sealed up in darkness forever. If you see any light by grace seize it. Jesus bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Peter Dont nullify the blood. Plead with God for the gift of distress over the poor and the persecuted church. Tony Reinkes scientifically subjective algorithm of intuition about the top books of . Your shopping list Husbands and wives talking honestly about lust dont miss Jackie Hill Perrys thoughtful word to couples. It is gracious when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. Peter Being wronged is a golden opportunity. Let me fall into the hand of the Lord for his mercy is very great but do not let me fall into the hand of man. Chronicles Who then is this that he commands even winds and water and they obey him Luke Joe Carter Nine things you should know about Fidel Castro. Sometimes you honor a king as human by hating his reign. If your marriage is going to make God look glorious you must find more satisfaction in God than in your marriage. My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. Luke As for the good soil they hear the word hold it fast in an honest and good heart and bear fruit with patience. Luke Pages and pages of joy. For your soul. Or for the soul of those you are buying gifts for. You may have never done anything daily leading up to Christmas. Maybe this year Here is our advent resource page. As they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life and their fruit does not mature. Luke Faith is not content with fleeting pleasures. It is ravenous for joy. Thats how it kills sin. Heres how it works The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. James Confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. James You have heard of the steadfastness of Job and you have seen the purpose of the Lord how he is compassionate and merciful. James Thankfulness is essential to life. Whether we are rich or healthy are secondary concerns. Be patient until the coming of the Lord. Jamess RT MattChandler years later no pain frustration or disappointment or suffering was wasted. What a King What a Savior Thankful In these days he went out to the mountain to pray and all night he continued in prayer to God. Luke Only then he chose the Twelve. Do you suffer because of your sin Look at the Book on Peter . You do not know what tomorrow will bring. . . So you ought to say If the Lord wills we will live and do this or that. James Here is a cornucopia of reflections on thanksgiving to feed your heart on the day of feasting. Come eat. He gives more grace. Thus God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. James Grace flows in channels unclogged with self. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Jams There is more moral evil in a drop of sin than in an ocean of affliction. Thomas Watson Remember your corruption enough to be humbled. But forget whatever stops your progress in Christ. Whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it. Yes God demands perfection. Hence the need for Christ God promised the kingdom to those who love him. James To those who LOVE him. To those who love HIM. To those who LOVE HIM. Would I be able to endure persecution Look at the Book on Peter . Show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ the Lord of glory. James Partiality before the Lord of glory God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Luke Dont lose hope for the stones you love. I will send a famine on the land declares the Lord not a famine of bread but of hearing the words of the Lord. Amos Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. James Should we encourage interracial marriage So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. James There is a glory that never fades. Sin is the devils firstborn. Thomas Watson This is the sixth month with her who was called barren. For nothing will be impossible with God. Luke Every time we sin we show that the glory of God is not in that moment our supreme treasure but that something else is considered better. The Lord God has sworn by himself declares the Lord the God of hosts I abhor the pride of Jacob. Amos . God hates our pride. Woe to those who stretch themselves out on their couches but are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph. Amos Depressed and thankful. Six ways to find joy. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. Hebrews Listening to God is not casual. Higher. Longer. Wiser. Sweeter. Stronger. God overall. A new poem seeking to see and savor and say Gods supremacy. Strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Hebrews Are you on this quest Let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Hebrews Jon Bloom on How to lay aside the weight of craving to be great. Learning to read a Bible full of promises. Although they knew God they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. Romans All know him. Never forget this when witnessing. Working diligently while God works decisively is a deeply satisfying arrangement. Even the beasts of the field pant for you O God because the water brooks are dried up. Joel Look at the a Book on Peter . Do we rejoice because our reward is great Or in order to have the reward By a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Hebrews Those being perfected are perfected. Marshall Segal on The Golden Rule in Christian Dating The Lord heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. He determines the number of the stars. Psalm Star maker. Wound mender. If you want a book for someone who is suffering may I in this minute video try to persuade you to get this one. I grew up with his children. Cliff Barrows was one of the most gracious men Ive known. and I will strike the winter house and the summer house. The houses of ivory shall perish the great houses shall come to an end. Amos The Lord God has spoken who can but prophesy Amos The death of Christ is not the end but the beginning and the foundation of everything that God does for the elect. Christ entered once for all into the holy places by means of his own blood thus securing an eternal redemption. Hebrews David Mathiss Habits of Grace is reviewed at Books at a Glance. Man is like a breath his days are like a passing shadow. Psalm Feeling the truth of this helps and he soul see God as supreme. Is Persecution Coming fore Christians Look at the Book on Peter . My attempt at defining and measuring structural racism. If you are skeptical I hope youll read it. Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love for in you I trust. Psalm Disaster came down from the Lord to the gate of Jerusalem. Micah Does disaster befall a city unless the Lord has done it Amos Does Christianity Make Life Harder. Thoughts on Union with Christ by Tony Reinke. Gwen Ifill will be missed. And I dont even have a television. So penetrating was her presence. Enter not into judgment with your servant for no one living is righteous before you. Psalm Be still my soul thy Jesus can repay from his own fullness all he takes away. Katharina von Schlegel Who has overestimated the danger of our lust The Lord roars from Zion. But the Lord is a refuge to his people. Joel The ways of the Lord are right and the upright walk in them but transgressors stumble in them. Hosea Great and amazing are your deeds O Lord God the Almighty Revelation RT SPACEintl Legalised prostitution is producing hell on earth says Ingeborg Kraus German psychotraumatologist Jesus is counted worthy of more glory than Mosesas much more glory as the builder of a house has than the house itself. Hebrews Put the prosecuting and defense attorneys to work in your mind as you test all things by the Scripture. Their princes shall fall by the sword because of the insolence of their tongue. Hosea Though the Lord is high he regards the lowly. Psalm You may be more qualified than you think. Misconceptions about world missions. If you voted for Trump while saying he shouldnt have been running dont celebrate without tears. Maybe read this On the day I called you answered me my strength of soul you increased. Psalm Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning they have become to him altars for sinning. Hosea Forbid a certain food invest the prohibition with biblical authority and you contradict Christ. O Israel you are against me against your helper. Hosea minute video on what it means to be ready make a defense to those who ask a reason for your hope. When they had grazed they became full they were filled and their heart was lifted up therefore they forgot me. Hosea Should a Christian Complain to God Look at the Book on Jeremiah . Because he himself has suffered when tempted he is able to help those who are being tempted. Hebrews A good time to remind ourselves about the radical difference Jesus makes in leadership. We must pay much closer attention to what we have heard lest we drift away from it.Hebrews Five Ways to Help Our Kids After the Election. By a prophet the Lord brought Israel up from Egypt and by a prophet he was guarded. Hosea So today Wordfaithful anointed pastors. It is the time to seek the Lord that he may come and rain righteousness upon you Hosea . Our joy is full only when we know we have arrived at the end of our quest for satisfaction. Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces. Hosea We were made for grandeur. If not God then the work of our hands. Grant Wackers Billy Graham Americas Pastor free this month at Christian Audio. As long as there is eternity God has time enough to deal with his enemies. Thomas Watson. Lest you think any injustice overlooked. Do you feel Gods grace and peace Look at the Book on Galatians . Thousands have never prayed a corporate prayer of confession. Election day is a good day to start. I gave you a king in my anger. Hosea A .minute video encouragement for your heart on election eve. His kingdom cannot be shaken. All their kings have fallen and none of them calls upon me. Hosea I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. Hosea Hardnosed hope in a sovereign God. On election day. Christ died for everyone but not everyone in the same way. Let us know let us press on to know the Lord he will come to us as the spring rains that water the earth. Hosea Ephraim is crushed in judgment because he was determined to go after filth. Hosea Our distinctively Christian witness is not a call to make America great but for a transfer of citizenship. Their deeds do not permit them to return to their God. Hosea . O the bondage when desire becomes deed Understand this that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. Timothy Lest we have escatalogical notions of ease. The sacred scriptures are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. Timothy Christian you are free not to vote. Not from indifference but the prophetic implications of your true citizenship. The Lord was gracious to them and had compassion on them and he turned toward them because of his covenant. Kings God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth. Timothy . See verse for your part in their repentance. I endure everything for the sake of the elect that they may obtain the salvation in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Timothy Covenants. The backbone of the Bibles story. The substance of our priceless promises. Elisha fell sick with the illness of which he was to die. Kings . Prophets who heal die of sickness. Then and now. Do you exercise like a nonbeliever Jesus said The sons are free from the drachma tax. What does that mean for this election Read or watch. The more they increased the more they sinned against me I will change their glory into shame. Hosea Do your gifts glorify you or God Look at the Book on Peter A penny will hide the biggest star in the Universe if you hold it close enough to your eye. Samuel Grafton By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us guard the good deposit entrusted to you. Timothy Four minute video on why Im not sending my blackbelted wife to take out the burglar. Share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God. Timothy I am yours O Lord save me Psalm The goal of history. All things O Lord are your servants. Psalm There is not one chance in a million that too many will go. I hope youll be one of them. Leaving for missions. This morning do you want to hear something from this old black book or would you like some fresh water from God How to serve in a strength that is not your own. Look at the Book on Peter . I will make the Valley of Trouble a door of hope. Hosea As obedient children do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. Peter Sinful desires are arise from ignorance Christ died for you not a c. CROSS student missions conference in Louisville Dec. . Save on registration before midnight. See you there. He trusted in the abundance of his riches and sought refuge in his own destruction Psalm Do not toil to acquire wealth. When your eyes light on it it is gone flying like an eagle toward heaven. Proverbs What does the present political climate in America have to do with world evangelization And the Cross Conference Take hold of the eternal life. Timothy Trick or Treat GodCentered Resources for Halloween and Reformation Day at Desiring God. When Jesus Haunts Your Halloween. O man of God flee the love of money Timothy By celebrating Reformation Day we celebrate Christ as our supreme treasure. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Timothy There is no promise of deliverance from death in this world. But there is a command to keep doing good until your dead. Peter Join thousands of yrolds lifting the name of Jesus at Passion Register before November for Getting to heaven and finding that we are supreme would be the ultimate let down. Volcanic Joy Why the purpose of the universe collapses if God is not an infinitely happy God. Before I was afflicted I went astray but now I keep your word. Psalm RT CROSScon Dare we be so in love with our lives in this world that we will stand back while billions...lose their souls ThabitiAn You are good and do good. Psalm George Muellers text for his wifes funeral message. And the man of God wept. Kings A godly person may approve of Gods wisdom and weep over what he decrees. And those who turn many to righteousness will shine like the stars forever and ever. Daniel You can do this for someone. Today. What happened when Martin Luther went trick or treating Pastors encourage your college students to register for CROSSprices jump on Tuesday Good works are conspicuous even those that are not cannot remain hidden. Timothy So dont angle to be seen. Just do lots of good. Vaneetha has a new book. And a new article on how Isaiah carries us in suffering. Never surrender your conscience to any human authority outside the Bible. Keep yourself pure. Timothy They conquered by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony for they loved not their lives even to death. Revelation How Can I Change Look at the Book on Corinthians . I seek not what is yours but you. Corinthians . Lord rid the church of those who see godliness as a means of gain. Timothy Jesus My grace is sufficient for you for my power is made perfect in weakness. Cor. Lord dont let us be bitter at weakness. We die only once. It might as well be for Christ. Werner Groenewald. Martyr with his two children in Afghanistan . Never Harmless Never Private Never Safe Fighting Porn with Superior Pleasure. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me I will call on the name of the Lord. Psalm . You can never ask too much. Is it sinful to watch porn with your spouseYes it is a revolting sin. The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Timothy Why are we told about Gods purpose before creation to redeem us from sin that did not yet exist If you like your Christian Hedonism imbedded in pictures you might want to follow us Desiring God on Instagram. Do you know why God called you out of darkness He called you that you may declare his excellencies. Peter . Do you know them Demystifying spiritual gifts. Bending grace horizontally into the lives of others. Look at the Book on Peter . Athens . Muslims overwhelmingly Iranian and Afghan have trusted Christ in the last eight years. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. Thessalonians . Pray this for the erring. Questions young preachers should ask before embracing all of Andy Stanleys preaching counsel. His heart is firm trusting in the Lord. Psalm Renouncing selfreliance in favor of trust creates unshakable resolve. From the rising of the sun to its setting the name of the Lord is to be praised Psalm I love year old counsel for current problems. Like distraction in the presence of God. Why does God regret and repent in the Bible They are perishing because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. Thessalonians Love is what faith feels for the Truth. All Gods permissions ofimperfection are perfect plans for he takes all things into account wisely when he chooses to permit. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power. Psalm . Without coercion gladly compelled by your greatness. Let your gifts be for yourself and give your rewards to another. Daniel Gods man cannot be bought. We pray that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every good resolve and work of faith by his power. Thess. The Lord satisfies the longing soul. Psalm Transpose the music of every desire into a song to the One who alone fully satisfies. RT CROSScon Register for CROSS today prices jump on We will not stop writing and publishing until the earth is submerged under a global tsunami of truth. Where dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick your blood. Kings Murder removes no obstacles except to judgment. You may be a president a pastor or a police chief and yet pout like a child. It is prelude to no good. Kings Ive subscribed to Books and Culture from the beginning. Sad to see it go. Listen to Noll Wilson Galli postmortem. Doing good to others without delight in the doing is only half the duty. . . . the word of God which is at work in you believers. Thessalonians . The word is at work Fill yourself with it Joe Rigney The Gift of Gods Judgment Our Election Crisis and Opportunity They oppose all humans by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved. Thess. Who are the real humanists What was so revolutionary years ago about spiritual gifts Look at the Book on Peter . We speak not to please man but to please God who tests our hearts. Thessalonians . Pleasing both is fine. But God is decisive. Obedience is an excellent way of commenting on the Bible. Thomas Watson I will leave seven thousand in Israel all the knees that have not bowed to Baal. Kings . A letter from hell to a subdemon about the devils data plan. Can you read inside out If not skip this. You turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Thessalonians They will know we are Christians by our love. But how when lots of unbelievers do similar deeds We dont start from scratch when we share Christ. How long will you go limping between two different opinions If the Lord is God follow him. Kings His promise to somethings He satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. Psalm Seeing is believing. And seeing glory is a miracle. Look at the Book on Corinthians . Teach all nations to obey all that Jesus commanded is one of the commands we are to teach the nations to obey. The name of the city from that time on shall be The Lord Is There. Ezekiel My hometown. No other competes. RT BrandonSmith Saying Planned Parenthood does WAY more than abortions is like saying Hitler did WAY more than exterminate Jews RT CROSScon See the article by plattdavid. joJn us at CROSS to hear him speak Register at link in profile. I have pounded on him. Wept over him. Preached him constantly Heres why I love him. Whatever you do in word or deed do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Colossians . In his will by his strength for his glory. Set your minds on things that are above. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Colossians You have put on the new self which is being renewed ... after the image of its creator. Colossians . You are new. And being renewed. Why did God wait so long in human history centuries even millennia before he finally sent Jesus to earth When Christ who is your life appears then you also will appear with him in glory. Colossians . Your very life before God. If you dont feel confident that you are praying in the Lords will heres what the early Christians prayed for. Asa did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He removed Maacah his mother from being queen for she had set up Asherah. Kings Make supplication for me that words may be given to me to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. Ephesians Pray this for your pastor. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Colossians If you give me half your house I will not go in with you. Kings A true prophets response to bribery. For this I was born. To bear witness to the truth. Bend your damned neck. Not your grandmas movie. Neither was the crucifixion. RiverThief. How can you know that you have been sealed by the Spirit for the day of redemption Answer You do not want to grieve him. Ephesians . Let those who suffer according to Gods will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator. Peter He wills it. He cares for you in it. As each has received a gift use it to serve one another as good stewards of Gods varied grace. Peter Gifts are channels of grace. Little ears in big church and what to do when the sermon topic is sensitive. When the cares of my heart are many your consolations cheer my soul. Psalm When not after. Many not few. Cheer not cope. Lord reveal to us wherever our thinking is not in sync with the apostles. Philippians . What Grumbling Says about God. Look at the Book on Peter . Epaphroditus nearly died for the work of Christ risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. Philippians Ajith Fernando on fathering joy teethgritting and the smile of God. Three minute videos. I will have mercy on the house of Israel and I will be jealous for my holy name. Ezekiel . Mercy plus holy exoneration Christ. We just released at Desiring God a podcast page where all of our six podcasts are housed for easier access. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible. Ephesians Do you love him so Then you enjoy this grace. It is so helpful to have someone give you such practical help in praying the way the Bible prays. Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the armor of God. Ephesians . Our adversary is next to God in power. What do Marvin Olasky and Leonhard Cohen have in common today this Jewish high day Yom Kippur Of course Trump should step down as Olasky and Grudem say. So should Hillary. That is what unqualified means. Its never been a question. I used so many church growth strategies over the years I cant even begin to remember them all. Whatever good anyone does this he will receive back from the Lord. Ephesians So dont fret if others do not see your acts of love. Five ways persecution has backfired in Iran. Let this story cause Satans discouragements to backfire in you. May the Lord not forsake us but incline our hearts to him to walk in all his ways. Kings . No hope for holiness but this. Radical endtime impossible hospitality. Look at the Book on Peter . We heard of the love that you have for all the saints because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Colossians Love because of hope. You spoke with your mouth and with your hand have fulfilled it. Kings Gods promises are not predictions but purposes to perform. Thus says the Lord God Behold I am against you. Ezekiel . Faith in Jesus is the only way not to stand under these terrifying words. O dry bones hear the word of the Lord. Ezekiel . What kind of contextualization is this I will save them from all the backslidings. Ezekiel . God can do this. Dont despair of your beloved backslider. Rrated debate. Reigning king. Reinke at his best. Lets make the Great Commission great again. Never give children the impression that suffering exists because God is helpless. You can steal. Or you can work to have. Or you can work to have in order to give. Ephesians calls you ever higher. RT rayortlund Happy Birthday to this nasty guy with no heart but loved and admired by all his friends How pervasive is God among his people There is one God and Father of all who is over all and through all and in all. Ephesians Oh you who run away from God you will be so alone. Yet stop turn treasure heaven and he will have you happy home. Beautiful mornings and bloody bombings. The realism of Peter. A minute video message. Because you did not hate bloodshed therefore blood shall pursue you. Ezekiel Will you not revive us again that your people may rejoice in you Psalm Through Christ we both have access in one Spirit to the Father. Ephesians I will seek the lost I will bind up the injured I will strengthen the weak I will feed them in justice. Ezekiel They stood in awe of the king because they perceived that the wisdom of God was in him to do justice. Kings O for such leaders As long as we prefer sin over Christ we must wage war for rest. As we have opportunity let us do good to everyone especially to those who are of the household of faith. Galatians No ill will. In case anybody asks heres a minute video on where the royalties from my books go. No amount of sin will keep you from life if you are changed. And no amount of righteousness will save if you embrace sin. Ezekiel How does love cover a multitude of sins Look at the Book on Peter . There are more evangelicals in Saudi Arabia than in Poland. Operation World p. . of municipalities have no evangelical church. Bear one anothers burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Galatians Sometimes Christ carries us in the arms of others. I learned things about the Internet that I did not know reading this very helpful piece. I recommend it. Be outraged that the world is blind to the glory of God. But do not be surprised that they walk as blind. Much less admire it. Arise O God judge the earth for you shall inherit all the nations Psalm Be on the right side of history Will you who are to shine with Christ as the sun follow after poor earthly pomp and show Happy birthday Jonathan Edwards. I love you. In Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything but only faith working through love. Galatians Does porn use disqualify a pastor Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Galatians Davids fathering failure. His father had never at any time displeased him by asking Why have you done thus and so Kings From him. Through him. To him. Look at the Book on Romans . Why you cant put God in your debt. Restore us O Lord God of hosts Let your face shine that we may be saved Psalm All humans have a supernatural enemy whose aim is to make us blind stupid and miserableforever. Know his ways. My little children I am again in the anguish of childbirth for you until Christ is formed in you. Galatians Lets love like this. God made with me an everlasting covenant ordered in all things and secure. Sam. You may say this if Christ is your feast. Is. Wayne Grudems The Poverty of Nations A Sustainable Solution Foreword by Rick Warren is free this month at Don dont struggle to figure out the maximum amount of sin you can commit and still be saved. Use that energy to kill it. Youre not glorifying God if he bores you. The great day of the wrath of the Lamb will come. Revelation We will not be viewed as loving to have kept this secret from the world. They asked us to remember the poor the very thing I was eager to do. Galatians We have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Galatians Are not heavens joys as valiant to assuage lusts as earths honor was to them John Donne Perhaps you are looking for a message to watch this weekend. Unmistakable Glory How We Know the Bible Is True. Men generally dont have the same thoughts of things when they come to die as when they were in health. Jonathan Edwards From Colin Kaepernick to Philando Castile. Tony Reinke and Carl Ellis help us see and feel in two directions. O that they were wise that they would consider their latter end Deut. Come you blessed of my Father inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Matthew Early bird registration ends at midnight for the CROSS student missions conference. You may never be the same. Your heart was proud because of your beauty you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. Ezekiel No one I know gives clearer more practical more biblical help in defeating sin than Steve Fuller. Pauls testimony. He who had set me apart before I was born called me by his grace. Galatians Jon Bloom on speaking less and listening more. To God. When you think you see something in the Bible test it. If I were still trying to please man I would not be a servant of Christ. Galatians You cant serve two masters. From Luther to Harvard to Noah Webster to your child let education be pervasively Christexalting even math. It is in the sight of God that we have been speaking in Christ and all for your upbuilding beloved. Corinthians A lifeline for the week and weary. Look at the Book on Peter . I love Ajith Fernando. Woven into this article are short videos. You will see why I do. Humility wisdom grace. You guide me with your counsel and afterward you will receive me to glory. Psalm Guidance now. Glory later. AtlantaGeorgia Dome. Full of year olds. Showing Jesus as the supreme Treasure. Save. Register by Saturday. The difference between a sane man and a madman is that when a sane man speaks like a madman he knows it. Corinthians Behold I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a stroke. Ezekiel The cost of faithful ministry. Why we must depend decisively on God for success in reading our Bibles we have a blinding enemy outside and a blinding disease inside. Too many professing Christians think theyre following Christ while having littletono hunger for him. Students who desire to minister the gospel to classmates here are seven suggestions to get you started. God is not moderately pleasing. He is infinitely pleasing. If we are not intensely pleased we need forgiveness and healing. And we do. Vote your conscience Or love your neighbor with a good conscience Ahithophels counsel to kill David seemed right to Absalom his son Samuel . His son Oh Absalom Absalom. My son Think Hard on Your Way to Heaven. Look at the Book on Peter . He trains my hands for war. Like David and Joshua. But O so different. It is not the one who commends himself who is approved but the one whom the Lord commends. Corinthians Children dying at the hands of children. And a pastor groaning with hope in a Jesus journal. When prayer seems burdensome call to mind that God really does enjoy your humble prayers as the sweet fragrance of incense. Revelation CROSS. Im praying for double last years globally minded students in December. Early Bird price ends Friday. O Lord please turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. Samuel Thus do wicked regimes come to ruin from within. Blessed be the Lord my rock who trains my hands for war. How are Joshuas wars different from Jesuss wars God requires faithfulness from everyone but some vocations are worth twice the honor. Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift Cor. Keep expressing the gift in fresh ways. And know you will never exhaust it. God is able to make all grace abound to you so that . . . you may abound in every good work. Corinthians . Every obedience a gift. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart not reluctantly or under compulsion for God loves a cheerful giver. Corinthians Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. Samuel Hearts belong to their rightful king. Has yours been stolen Awesome is God . . . He is the one who gives power and strength to his people. Psalm He wants us to feel awesomely helped. Jesus is the test of true faith. A recent message that probes the massive significance of Scripture for Jesus. Blessed be the Lord who daily bears us up. Psalm Daily hourly moment by moment. Held up with sovereign hands. I returned from Europe last summer a flaming protestant grieved at gospel loss. So glad for G. Allisons wisdom. As wax melts before fire so the wicked shall perish before God Psalm They looked so solid and firm. Then reality. God settles the solitary in a home. Psalm How many applications can you think of The righteous shall be glad they shall exult before God they shall be jubilant with joy Psalm No restraint to our joy someday. Insight Not being thankful in all circumstances blocks blessings of guidance you are longing for. The longer you wait to share Christ with your friends the more perplexed they will be. We must all die we are like water spilled on the ground which cannot be gathered up again. Samuel Heres a new website for pastors who are looking for resources focussing on the integration of faith and work. I wrote to you so that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you in the sight of God. Corinthians Our heart revealed to us. In what sense is the end of all things at hand Look at the Book on Peter . Even if I made you grieve with my letter I do not regret it because you were grieved into repenting. Corinthians Hurt to heal. Blessed are the manboys for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Yes really. In the pursuit of unity between groups bridges not built on the pillars of truth will only support the weightless emissaries of error. If you are a preorder kind of person heres the promised volume on Reading the Bible Supernaturally. You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy. Psalm In all its groaning the first and final meaning of all. Until we know that life is warWe will not know what prayer is for. Pursue satisfaction in God and take as many people along with you as possible even at the cost of your life. As grace extends to more and more people it increases thanksgiving to the glory of God. Grace to man. Glory to God. The meaning of all. We are afflicted but not crushed perplexed but in despair persecuted but not forsaken struck down but not destroyed. Cor. Declare me innocent of real fault. And keep me back from presumptuous sins. Look at the Book on Psalm . We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with Gods word. Corinthians Smartphones are dangerous. Smartphones are useful. Learn from Tony Reinke how to wield them with eternal purpose. The debt I owe to Jonathan Edwards is incalculable. And it gets deeper monthly. Heres a taste of his impact. Police Chief Chuck Jordan said We will achieve justice for Terence Crutcher. Dont let us down sir. Behold I will raise up evil against you out of your own house. Samuel God wields the sword of sin withou sinning. Struck down but not destroyed. What fills your mind on the mat when the referee is counting to ten I invite you to FX missions conference in Minneapolis Oct. . Use promo code for discount FrontlineExperience. You have despised ME says the Lord and have taken the wife of Uriah to be your wife. Samuel . Hence Psalm Against you only. Oh Lord grant us help against the foe for vain is the salvation of man Psalm Seven invitation in minutes to make light of sex. Drink the Word to taste the Savior. If there was glory in the ministry of condemnation the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory. Corinthians A message given in Italy about liferisking courage in the cause of love. A onehour audio. Beholding the glory of the Lord we are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. Corinthians Since we have such a hope we are very bold. Corinthians Nothing emboldens like unbreakable hope. RT desiringGod Watching football is deeply religious for millions and we dare not go allin without our eyes wide open. If the ministry of death came with such glory will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory Corinthians Find a friend to remind you. It is a precious gift. Let us be courageous for our people and for the cities of our God and may the Lord do what seems good to him. Samuel Was not Sodom a byword in your mouth before your wickedness was uncovered Ezekiel How easy to condemn until our sin is revealed. I have returned your deeds upon your head declares the Lord. Exekiel The natural consequences of sin are no less a judgment of God. Women the World Cannot Explain. minute video from Peter. teaching I love the phrase serious joy. I love the school where this banner flies. College or Seminary bound Come see. I adorned you. . . But you trusted in your beauty and played the whore. Ezekiel There are paragraphs in this piece by Sho Baraka that make my heart sing. Those whom I love I reprove and discipline so be zealous and repent. Revelation If my final perseverance is the truest evidence of my faith what hope do I have of assurance today Thanks be to God who through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere. Corinthians God spreads . . . through us. Do not fear for I will show you kindness. Samuel Oh sweet words from the mouth of a righteous king before whom you cower. What does it mean that the gospel was preached to the dead Look at the Book on Peter . RT davidcmathis Not Yet Married The Pursuit of Joy in Singleness and Dating. Thrilled for this forthcoming book by marshallsegal. https Dad enough to sing You have heard that it was said Dont trust anyone under . But Thomas Oden says Dont trust anyone under . No life without abiding. No abiding without desperation. Where Christ has had one martyr sin has had a thousand. Jonathan Edwards Be exalted O God above the heavens Let your glory be over all the earth Psalm You are great O Lord God. There is none like you there is no God besides you according to all that we have heard. Samuel Jesus said I do not seek my own glory John . But why not Joy. The great apostolic aim Not that we lord it over your faith but we work with you for your joy. Corinthians We felt we had received a sentence of death. That was to make us rely not on ourselves but on God who raises the dead. Corinthians God will deal with your enemies. Leave it to him. Look at the Book on Peter . Cast your burden on the Lord and he will sustain you he will never permit the righteous to be moved. Psalm God decreed your glory before the ages. Come with me to the orchard of hope. You have encouraged the wicked that he should not turn from his evil way to save his life. Ezekiel . Deadly encouragement in sin. When the wall falls he will say Where is the coating with which you smeared it Exekiel . A tottering wall does not need paint. Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins. Ezekiel Present selfassertive noisy. But they help no one rebuild. Jesus commanded us to love our enemies. But does God love his enemies If you would endure a pin prick for the sake of years of earthly ecstasy would you not endure years of misery for eternal ecstasy JE Jonathan Edwardss earliest sermon. Doctrine A good man is a happy man whatever his outward circumstances are. So is it with the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in dishonor it is raised in glory. Corinthians If the dead are not raised Let us eat and drink for tomorrow we die. Corinthians . And if the are . . . This new page story of Andrew Fuller the brilliant ropeholder for William Carey also comes in an audio book. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit a contrite heart you will not despise. Psalm . Not despise receive with tender smile. You delight in truth in the inward being and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Psalm . Ask him to teach you what he enjoys. I am the Lord I speak the word that I will speak and it will be performed. Ezekiel Not believing this is the folly of the world. These three old ladies in the booth Beside me at Mcdonalds leanAnd disciplined unlike the youth Depart and leave their table clean. As his share is who goes down into the battle so shall his share be who stays by the baggage. They shall share alike. Samuel Is it possible to unharden our own hearts David was greatly distressed for the people spoke of stoning him. But David strengthened himself in the Lord his God. Samuel He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Revelation Dont prove yourself earless. Hear Being holy may not mean what you think. How does it relate to love Look at the Book on Thessalonians As a deer pants for flowing streams so pants my soul for you O God. My soul thirsts for Godfor the living God. Psalm RT ScottyWardSmith Sleep well in the assurance of Jesus finished work the Spirits ongoing work and our Fathers promise to complete t Take up your cross and say I DO. A minute video on marriage and why it took me years before I wrote the book. I waited patiently for the Lord he inclined to me and heard my cry. Psalm The body is not meant for sexual immorality but for the Lord and the Lord for the body. Corinthians Do not fear what you are about to suffer... Be faithful unto death and I will give you the crown of life. Revelation Jesus is your brother but what does that mean I do not write these things to make you ashamed but to admonish you as my beloved children. Corinthians Labor for the Lord is never Lost. Look at the Book on Corinthians . When reviled we bless when persecuted we endure when slandered we entreat. Corinthians . Pauls way of following Christ. Yours What do you have that you did not receive If then you received it why do you boast as if you did not receive it Corinthians Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it I fell on my face. Ezekiel In your light do we see light. Psalm There is no true seeing until one sees all in the light of God. Truth Godillumined. Oh taste and see that the Lord is good Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him Psalm The command is simple Pray without ceasing. But is it possible Cause us to return to you O Lord and we will return. Lamentations . Our only hope when straying. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. Corinthiana This poor man cried and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. Psalm The redeemed cosmos will reach its final purpose when the saints enjoy God in it and through it and above it with whitehot admiration. His eyes were like a flame of fire and his face was like the sun shining in full strength. Revelation Let us test and examine our ways and return to the Lord Lamentations God is not moderately pleasing. He is infinitely pleasing. If we are not intensely pleased we need forgiveness and healing. Which we do. One good solid contextual grammatical argument for what a text means outweighs every assertion that the Holy Spirit told me the meaning. What God says will be more useful to us than what anyone else in the universe has to say. New Testament churches often gathered in homes. Should we For the trusting and patient God weaves even the seemingly failed hour of study into the fabric of illumination. Loss of interest in the word of God is loss of interest in God. A Proven Recipe for Humility. Look at the Book on Peter . Alas how blind are sinners to fancy themselves happy when they are serving the devil for the wages of eternal death. Jonathan Edwards Justice. Forever. RT davidclifford Bethlehem Conference for Pastors Church Leaders Price increase at midnight today http Kindness and Calvinism. I said I will confess my transgressions to the Lord and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Psalm Our only hope. The Lord is in the right for I have rebelled against his word. Lamentations God will not give men liberty to be beasts. Jonathan Edwards Preparing a funeral prayer for a family of five when words feel so utterly inadequate. If we live we live to the Lord if we die we die to the Lord. So whether we live or die we are the Lords. Romans . Unshakeable. Whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. Romans When God is missing nothing is right. All living minus God fails. Does Baptism Save You Look at the Book on Peter . We would like our conference to be as affordable as possible. So come on in before tomorrows increase. The night is far gone the day is at hand. Romans . There will be no night there. Revelation What will you do when the end comes If you will not have God as your treasure you will have him as your enemy. An appetite for miracles does not prove anyone to be a Christian. All the liberty we are denied by Gods law is this he will never grant us liberty by his law to be eternally miserable. Jonathan Edwards Love does no wrong to a neighbor therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. Romans Put on the Lord Jesus Christ make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Romans . Cut off the supply lines. Starve sin. Can we overdo Christian Hedonism Yes. Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord Samuel Doth a father or mother abridge the child of liberty because he is not suffered to drink sweet poison Jonathan Edwards Where Christ has had one martyr sin has had a thousand. Jonathan Edwards citing unknown source. Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil hold fast to what is good. Romans Abhoring evil deeds is not always perceived as love. It may be that the Lord will work for us for nothing can hinder the Lord from saving by many or by few. Samuel Two seconds of silence between your expressed thoughts is a good thing. So dont fill that space with um or ah. Preaching or praying The voice of the Lord strips the forests bare and in his temple all cry Glory Psalm You were found and caught because you opposed the Lord. Jeremiah . No one succeeds when opposing the Lord. Ever. Their Redeemer is strong the Lord of hosts is his name. Jeremiah When you beautify a room you make it more beautiful. When you glorify God you DO NOT make him more glorious. In those days iniquity shall be sought in Israel and none shall be found for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant. Jeremiah Who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid For from him and through him and to him are all things. Romans Show the World a Life Worth Living. Look at the Book on Peter . You have done foolishly. You have not kept the command of the Lord your God with which he commanded you. Samuel Could every race on earth really come from Noah The pride of your heart has deceived you. Jeremiah The moral root of intellectual folly. Faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ. Romans The daily fight of faith is a fight to hear. Swimming in the deep end with God. A story of adoption. My hearts desire and prayer to God for my Jewish kinsmen is that they may be saved. Romans May every vestige if antisemitism perish. Waiting to date till you can marry. Why and how Evangelicalisms global growth is mainly Pentecostal. This is cause for celebration and for concern. Fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart. For consider what great things he has done for you. Samuel Western workers teach us to be afraid. Should we extract the persecuted believer The Lord will not forsake his people for his great names sake. Samuel . His allegiance to his own name is our hope. You have sinned enough already. Look at the Book on Peter . From whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it Samuel The culture where bribery rules remains in darkness. Life Hacking Gone Wrong. The Story of Benjamin Franklin. A conversation with Thomas Kidd. In the digital age needs surround us. So how do we avoid inactivity paralysis All who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. Rom Led Contextually led by the Spirit into mortal combat with our own sin. Cursed is he who does the work of the Lord with slackness. Jeremiah On an on as if it were a worthless work. True Christisns pray for more than nonChristians pray for. Dont we Moab shall be destroyed and be no longer a people because he magnified himself against the Lord. Jeremiah years of food clothing health peace prosperity and comfort followed by eternal misery is not a good life. Christians are notyet perfect Spiritempowered persevering Christtreasuring sinhating new beings. Dont dwell on your disappointments. It only leads to bitterness. Dwell on the hope you have in Christ that you dont deserve. Col. There are biblical riches here in this interview between David Mathis and Bob Kauflin. Aim to attain the resurrection from the dead by any means possible Philippians . Whatever it takes. Treating grace as license is evidence that grace was powerless a sign of hypocrisy not salvation. Jude God gave him another heart. Samuel . No other hope. And he can do it for for the most hardened ISIS fighter. Or your child. Ask. One day America and all its presidents will be a footnote in history but the kingdom of Jesus will never end. With Saul went men of valor whose hearts God had touched. Samuel Valor Yes In the church today. Around the world. Lord touch Be exalted O Lord in your strength We will sing and praise your power. Psalm . Show all the powerful how weak and small they are. Zika. Unprecedented action by CDC. Kathryn Butler M.D. helps us think and pray. One man of you puts to flight a thousand since it is the Lord your God who fights for you just as he promised you. Joshua All the remnant of Judah who came to Egypt to live shall know whose word will stand mine or theirs. Jeremiah . Stand forever As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the Lord we will not listen to you. . . For we prosper. . . Jeremiah A cautionary tale of life hacking gone wrong. The whole land is made desolate but no man lays it to heart. Jeremiah . Let us apply our hearts to all desolation. Thomas Aquinas Man is unable not to wish to be happy. Sin will have no dominion over you since you are not under law but under grace. Romans Hence the evidence of grace is not sinning. How can human desires be the opposite of the will of God when hope is a human desire LAB on Peter . Present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. Romans Your hands. Your tongue. Your sexual organs. We will suffer but most American Christians are unprepared for it. By the one mans obedience the many will be appointed righteous. Romans The righteous one my servant shall make many to be accounted righteous. Isaiah Dont be satisfied with a breath after death. Christ died bring us to God. I call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised and I am saved from my enemies. Psalm One of the most important discoveries of my life. See this and it will change everything. Do not fear the king of Babylon declares the Lord for I am with you to save you and to deliver you from his hand. Jeremiah God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners Christ died for us. Romans God. Sin. Christ. Death. For. Us. Gospel. We give glory to God when we are fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. Romans . Trust him Trust him Who are the antichrists Look at the Book on John . Whoever does evil has not seen God. John . The foundation of Christian life is spiritual sight. Poetry is resistance against answering the inexpressible with silence. Even if you entered a marriage wrongfully you should faithfully stay in it. They would not listen to the voice of their father for it was the will of the Lord to put them to death. Samuel . Too late. Oh that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion Psalm . When it come it will be through the preaching of Jesus as the Messiah. If a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision Romans The greatest stumbling block for a child in worship is a parent who doesnt. God shows no partiality. Romans Faith not ethnicity finds favor. It is the Lord. Let him do what seems good to him. Samuel On earth not as it is in heaven. Crucial aspects of worship now that will not be in heaven. I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians both to the wise and to the foolish. Romans Not by might shall a man prevail. Samuel The Lord makes poor and makes rich he brings low and he exalts. Samuel . He opposes the haughty. He pities those who feel helpless. With regard to this sect Christisnity we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Acts Yet spreading like wildfire. Fear not. What I said at Google. A syllogism to show Gods selfexaltation is his kindness to those who savor true beauty. Another reason I love Bethlehem College and Seminary. Faculty planning day begins with one of our professors reciting Romans by heart. The hill of Zion yieldsA thousand sacred sweetsBefore we reach the heavenly fieldsOr walk the golden streets. Isaac Watts Where do moods come from Can we lay them aside How One man of you puts to flight a thousand since it is the Lord your God who fights for you just as he promised you Joshua . Until we find our rest in Christ we will be trying to invent ourselves in ways that will only end in tears. All the thoughts of the proud are There is no God. Psalm The Spirit of Christ is the spirit of missions and the nearer we get to him the more intensely missionary we must become. Henry Martyn Theres a way of thinking that is armor in the fight with Satan and sin. Look at the Book on Peter again. Jehoiakims cutting and burning the Scriptures did not slow their terrible fulfillment. Jeremiah So it is with all such cutting. Secret Wisdom in the Wake of Suffeing. Can we do this Should we do thisTwo very different questions. I saw a light from heaven brighter than the sun. Acts . Jesus exceeds in brightness and beauty and power all the created best. If you bid a false teacher God speed you share in his evil works. John Rather say I will die for you but not support you. O Lord our Lord you have set your glory above the heavens. Psalm A greater glory than the galaxies. When going becomes gone for a family of five. Groping for words. A poem in memory of the Pals family. Truth aims at love.Love aims at truth.Love shapes how to speak truth.Truth shapes how to love. May the Lord do so to me and more also if anything but death parts me from you. Ruth So speaks a covenant like marriage. And keeps. If a man does not repent God will whet his sword he has bent and readied his bow. Psalm . How patiently he waits. We still breathe. Christ died to make us dead to sin. Look at the Book on Peter . There was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. Judges Law did not suffice. Leadership was needed. Lets learn from John Knox how to die well. Step one Turn off the TV as you die. God has given us a distinct body and soul but the two are knit together Psalm . The Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. Ruth Yes Naomi. But lift up your eyes. The Barley harvest Boaz A baby RT joelmdougherty The Pals familys memorial service JoyofJapan RT WePreachChrist Grieving with Hope the hope that death has been swallowed up in Victory Many deceivers have gone out into the world. John Today every false teacher has his own Twitter account. Discernment for our time. A tsunami of gender fluidity has now hit but seismic waves were building for decades. Far more beauty beyond the screen. Show the children. If your Bible is closed dont complain that God is silent. I will give them one heart and one way that they may fear me forever for their own good. Jeremiah .One way. One heart. After we have done everything that we can do in obedience to God we all need mercy from God and from each other. Luke This is a major important biblical statement from Tony Reinke about the transgender illusion. How do we speak to God in the midst of unspeakable tragedy This is my trembling attempt. My people shall be satisfied with my goodness declares the Lord. Jeremiah O death where is your victory O death where is your sting Gone For God gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And when my task is done By grace the victorys won Een deaths cold wave I will not flee Since God through Jordan leadeth me. They shall be radiant over the goodness of the Lord. Jeremiah Functioning sex organs reshaped into disabled sexual organs is not human progress it is the mutilation of nature. I have loved you with an everlasting love therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. Jeremiah The word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily. Acts The word does the work. Speak it. Olympic spirituality. Through grace they believed. Acts . When you look back on the origin of your faith do you say this No apologies for big families. The greatest redemptive event in the OT to which subsequent revelation points to again and again and again. Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life. Acts The gift flows through the gospelshared and heard. Being fervent in spirit he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus. Acts . Fervent accuracy Passionate precision Can a true Christian fall away Look at the Book in John . Pray that every heartbreaking disappointment would become an opportunity against the Philistines. Judges Thinking biblically about Sunday Pastor salaries buildings and the place of preaching. The Lord has an indictment against the nations he is entering into judgment with all flesh. Jeremiah My kind of millennial The kind that can express indignation at sins the world does not express indignation about as well as the rest. Six practical reasons what you believe about free will matters. Six very significant effects on your life if you believe in the freedom or bondage of the will. An angel struck Herod because he did not give God glory. He was eaten by worms and breathed his last. Acts . Yes its that serious. In college my mother probably quoted Proverbs to me more than any other verse. Heres why. He judged the cause of the poor and needy then it was well. Is not this to know me declares the Lord. Jeremiah The gift of teaching isnt knowing much but helping others know more with warranted reasons and clear explanations. How Do You Decrypt Confusing Bible Verses Look at the Book on Peter . Beloved let us love one another for love is from God whoever loves is born of God. John Love is the divine DNA of the new birth. How authentic is the Bible text handed down to us Gideon said I will not rule over you nor my son the Lord will rule over you. Judges . Saul did not follow this example. Though neither candidate should be president America deserves no better than either. Hence our prayers are for something deeper. When Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation he worshiped. Judges . Lord Grant such a response to your plans. Should a man pursue marriage if hes uncertain about his soul Jesus is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. Acts We will follow our own plans and will every one act in the stubbornness of his evil heart. Jeremiah At least theyre honest. May your friends O Lord be like the sun as he rises in his might. Judges I have heard how much evil Saul has done to your saints at Jerusalem. Acts Such great evil doers God saves for his service. Encourage your heart with this account of Gods outstretched arm among Muslims in Iran. That the people offered themselves willingly bless the Lord Judges . Wherever you see willing obedience to Christ give glory to God. Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength whose heart turns away from the Lord . Jeremiah In his humiliation justice was denied him. Acts So that justice might be denied us in our exaltation. Driven from their homes by the persecution they went about preaching the word. Acts . What No self pity No complaint against God As they were stoning Stephen he called out Lord Jesus receive my spirit. Acts Words to die by. To a husband who doesnt want kids pray over these truths. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. John Gutsy Guilt How to Rise After We Fall into Sin. Look at the Book on Micah Do not be amazed brothers if the world hates you. John . Do not be surprised at the fiery trial as something strange. Peter An everneeded primer on patience. It is so close to the heart of Christian living. Because Love is patience. Humor goes wrong when its dirty corrupting illtimed egocentric demeaning or relentlessly superficial. They will fight against you but shall not prevail over you for I am with you to save you declares the Lord. Jeremiah If you utter what is precious and not what is worthless you shall be as my mouth. Jeremiah . Gods words are treasures not trifles. Your words were found and I ate them they became to me a joythe delight of my heart for I am called by your name O Lord. Jer. Buzzerbeating pointers are glorious. But they dont save anyone. So what kind of glory saves Stephen was full of grace and power. None could withstand the wisdom and Spirit with which he spoke. Acts GraceSpiritWisdomPower. This student missions conference is a dream come true. I pray Gods appointed students will be there. Cross. The word of God continued to increase and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly. Acts This is happening. Pray for more. Jesus is the only human who ever chose to be born so why did he come Look at the Book Romans . The Lord was moved to pity by their groaning because of those who afflicted and oppressed them. Judges A Beginners Guide to Free Will. My effort to deal biblically with three possible definitions. We are all myself included infected with the vocabulary of entertainment. If there is a lesson for us from the Old Testament it is that man including Gods covenant people left to himself will forsake God. We acknowledge our wickedness O Lord... Do not spurn us for your names sake do not dishonor your glorious throne. Jeremiah Both prophet and priest ply their trade and have no knowledge. Jeremiah For many the end of faith is not the end of ministry. Christians are expected to be found blameless. And this is not referring to imputed righteousness. How do we know Pauls ancient epistles are relevant for our lives today Though our iniquities testify against us act O Lord for your names sake... O you hope of Israel in time of trouble. Jeremiah They left the council rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. Acts You cant kill such joy. God exalted Jesus at his right hand as Leader and Savior to give repentance to Israel. Acts . Repentance is a gift. Cf. Timothy Courage and Contentment in the Call of the Gospel. Commencement address to Bethlehem College and Seminary. We must obey God rather than men. Acts Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life. Acts There is salvation in no one else for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Acts Ferocious battles with demonic unbelief are part of the normal Christian life. Jon Bloom schools us in the war. Choose this day whom you will serve. . . But as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. Joshua Everyone who hopes to see Jesus and be like him purifies himself as Jesus is pure. John . Postponed purity will never be. Right. But at least they gave anexplanation. We still have nothing even plausible for Philandos killing. Why is our delight in God so fleeting Do not prophesy in the name of the Lord or you will die by our hand. Jer. .Pastor will you risk your life for the sake of truth How to Do the Humanly Impossible. Fourth message to the European Leadership Forum in Poland. The Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Acts This is worth praying toward. Day by day The Heart of Fearless Contentment. Look at the Book on Philippians . They devoted themselves to the apostles teaching and the fellowship to the breaking of bread and the prayers. Acts Life devoted. You Cannot OutDream Gods Plans for You. The physician suicide rate is twice that of the general population. Read to see why. Can a Christian blaspheme the Holy Spirit Save yourselves from this crooked generation. Acts . Look to the Savior knowing your gaze is a gift. He makes the blind to see. Let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ this Jesus whom you crucified. Acts I plead with God Dont let anyone look into the night sky and see a bigger God than Piper preaches. Interview with David Mathis about Habits of the Heart. Facing Jesus when you die. If youre ready nothing better if youre not nothing worse. Do not be anxious about anything. Look at the Book on Philippians Prodigal. I dont know which is harderto be one or to love one. But I know that homecoming is a great joyfor both. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Acts . Think how ready he is to save Call with confidence. The Legacy of OnePoint Calvinism and Casual Churchianity. Can we overthink the Christian life Yes with a caution. I know O Lord that the way of man is not in himself that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps. Jeremiah So we pray. A woman and her friends. Worth the wait. The shepherds are stupid and do not inquire of the Lord. Jeremiah Stupid shepherd Def. Does not bring a message from the Lord. Love for neighbor wont play fast and loose with our neighbors beliefs. Don Carson on Islam and Christianity. The customs of the peoples are a vapor. Jeremiah Lost soul return home to Gods love. Beloved saint warm yourself by the flames of this love. What is the bottom of your joy Being someone Or seeing someone The Lord makes lightning for the rain and he brings the wind from his storehouses. Jeremiah There are no merely natural events. The gods who did not make the heavens and the earth shall perish from the earth and from under the heavens. Jeremiah There is none like you O Lord you are great and your name is great in might. Jeremiah Take this with you this morning and tell him. It is a great sadness when sufferers seek relief by sparring God his sovereinty over pain. This undercuts the very hope it aims to create. Father is the Christian name for God. Everything written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Luke . Must. Because God said it. Nik Ripken on the eerie unacceptable silence of the people of God. Not one word of all the good promises that the Lord had made to the house of Israel had failed all came to pass. Joshua Do not let my heart incline to any evil. Psalm This is not a prayer for free will. It is a prayer for freedom. Roots are essential but not the point of a tree. Fruit is. Or shade. Or lumber. Or fall gold. So with man. Roots essential. Fruit the point. If you are not astonished by this please do not become a preacher. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord Praise the Lord Psalm The whole Bible is for women. Welcomed into the family of God Don Carson surveys the theme of sonship in the Bible. Great is the Lord who delights in the welfare of his servant Psalm Here are five questions to ask before you consume cannibis. A.P.T.A.T. My five step strategy for walking by faith. Look at the Book. The Lord takes pleasure in his people he adorns the humble with salvation. Psalm. Mine Gods poetry for Gods beauty. Look at the Book on Deuteronomy As a black woman and Reformed Christian in Dallas the past week has been rough. Four things to consider. Is there no balm in Gilead Is there no physician there Jreremiah The Rrots of Fearless Unity in the Gospel. nd message to the European Leadership a Forum. I implore you women teachers lift my eyes from myself to him. Jen Wilkin This gives me hope for many things. You would be a fool to live in a way that gains nothing. What great nation is there that has a god so near to it as the Lord our God is to us whenever we call upon him Deuteronomy They went out from us but they were not of us for if they had been of us they would have continued with us. John Hear O earth behold I am bringing disaster upon this people because they have not paid attention to my words. Jeremiah The Playschool Tragedy for Twentysomethings. Can a true Christian be devoured by the devil No because a true Christian fights back. The Lord is near to all who call on him to all who call on him in truth. Psalm Who call on him for the pleasure of his nearness. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised and his greatness is unsearchable. Psalm We were made for this. Are the Old Testament Promises made to us Look at the Book. I will extol you my God and King and bless your name forever and ever. Psalm Yes. Yes. Yes. What is the joy of the Lord and where can I find it The Lord said to Joshua You are old and advanced in years and there remains very much land to possess. Josh. Retiree is this you When I fed them to the full they committed adultery. Jeremiah Dont use the fuel of Gods mercy to run the engine of sin. Man is like a breath his days are like a passing shadow. Psalm . But Christexalting thoughts emotions and deeds go with you. Three ways to approach the deep wonders of the cross. Joshua captured all these kings and their land at one time because the Lord God of Israel fought for Israel. Joshua I will give you shepherds after my own heart says the Lord who will feed you with knowledge and understanding. Jeremiah I will not look on you in anger for I am merciful says the Lord I will not be angry forever. Only acknowledge your guilt. Jeremiah Womanhood that the word of God may not be reviled. A message to the European Leadership Forum on the Glory of Christ. I write these things to you that you may not sin. John The power not to sin flows through an encounter with Scripture. Let a righteous man strike meit is a kindness let him rebuke meit is oil for my head let my head not refuse it. Psalm The broken dynamics of marriage. minute video. They will fight against you but they shall not prevail against you for I am with you declares the Lord to deliver you. Jeremiah Do not say I am only a youth for to all to whom I send you you shall go and whatever I command you you shall speak. Jeremiah This American Moment Dallas Alton Philando Hillary Hitler and Sanger. The reality and preciousness of truth. The Lord said to me I am watching over my word to perform it. Jeremiah His promises are not predictions they are performances. Before I formed you in the womb I knew you before you were born I consecrated you I appointed you a prophet to the nations. Jeremiah The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Psalm The Canaanites will hear of our defeat at Ai and cut off our name from the earth. And what will you do for your great name Joshuas A.P.T.A.T. Look at the Book Practical steps on how to walk by faith. You led your people to make for yourself a glorious name. Is. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his names sake. Ps. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me your steadfast love endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. Psalm Though the Lord is high he regards the lowly but the haughty he knows from afar. Psalm All the kings of the earth shall sing of the ways of the Lord for great is the glory of the Lord. Psalm O tame my heart It is thy highest art To captivate strong holds to thee. George Herbert I said Here I am here I am to a nation that was not called by my name. Psalm Does the Bible contradict itself Look at the Book on Peter . Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity Psalm Because Christ is more precious to all than all. RT mcbelz For anyone who knows how popular and busy this area of Baghdad is this is just surreal. Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy Psalm Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies for it is ever with me. Psalm America a fabric woven of Presbyterians and smugglers. You may not do better than this article today. A letter to her sons about pornography. This makes me think moms as well as dads should have the talk. If the Son sets you free you will be free indeed. John All things are your servants. Psalm Like the wind and the waves which obey him. In your steadfast love give me life that I may keep your testimonies. Psalm Gods love gives life for the sake of obedience. What will you be called in the last day Redeemed of the Lord Sought Out A City Not Forsaken. Isaiah Our eyes look to the Lord our God till he has mercy upon us. Psalm states in northern India are less than Christian. Pray that the church worldwide might rise to this task. Operation World If you are insulted for the name of Christ you are blessed because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Peter I will greatly rejoice in the Lord my soul shall exult in my God for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. Isaiah Pray for the peace of Jerusalem Psalm Especially eternal peace with God through faith in Jesus the Messiah. This Book of the Law shall not depart from your mouth but you shall meditate on it day and night. Joshua Meditate with your mouth. Are we pilgrims or patriots Your people shall all be righteous the branch of my planting the work of my hands that I might be glorified. Isaiah The sun shall be no more your light by day but the Lord will be your everlasting light and your God will be your glory. Isaiah Pray for God to Meet You. Look at the Book Psalm . Truth is lacking and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. Isaiah Think on that connection. Why believe the Bible and not the Koran minute video interview. How did Jesus learn obedience and become perfect if he never sinned Justice is turned back and righteousness stands far away for truth has stumbled in the public squares. Isaiah Dietrich Bonhoeffer was hanged while engaged to Maria von Wedemeyer. So he skipped the shadow called marriage on the way to the reality. The Lords hand is not shortened that it cannot save. Isaiah LGBT Basics. Preach the Gospel. The Bridegroom came to die for his bride. Not the size of a window determines how much you see but which way its facing and how close you are Put your eye at a pinhole of truth. What will you be doing when Jesus returns If you aim to meet peoples felt needs instead of their greatest needs remember this Our felt needs are about to change. His friend was like grass. A beautiful eulogy from Jon Bloom. There is no god beside me I kill and I make alive I wound and I heal and there is none that can deliver out of my hand. Deut. The Lord will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants when he sees that their power is gone. Deuteronomy Does medicine impede Gods sovereign plan for my suffering Be strong and courageous. Do not fear for the Lord your God goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. Deuteronomy This is a gracious thing when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. Peter Incline your ear and come to me hear that your soul may live. Isaiah Listen and live Listen and live Good apologies dont end with but not even from parents to children. Thinking through western wedding traditions marriage ceremonies and parental approval. Come everyone who thirsts come to the waters and he who has no money come buy and eat Isaiah Your testimonies are my delight they are my counselors. Psalm Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God. How can a young man keep his way pure By guarding it according to your word. Psalm Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the refugee. And all the people shall say Amen. Deuteronomy Cursed be anyone who misleads a blind man on the road. And all the people shall say Amen. Deuteronomy Why Pascals wager is misleading. And Chridtian Faith is not a leap in the dark. All we like sheep have gone astray we have turnedevery oneto his own way and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Is. David a Crabb on relating to LGBT after Olando. This is very good at multiple levels. After three weeks in Europe here are some reflections. From Gospel movements to Michelangelo. Who considered that he was stricken for the transgression of my people Isaiah Pray that Israel would today consider. Your college degree may be perfectly suited for what you never dreamed. Give it your best. Then prepare to veer. The righteous one my servant shall make many to be accounted righteous and he shall bear their iniquities. Isaiah Justification. Do You Want God More than Anything Look at the book on one of the most important verses in the Bible. Peter . This is an amazing milestone for Bethlehem college and seminary. Seven days to go. A closer look at contemporary Bible designs. It was the will of the Lord to crush him when his soul makes an offering for guilt he shall prolong his days. Isaiah . Dead. Alive. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lords doing it is marvelous in our eyes. Psalm On Line Friendships Are Note Enough. The Lord has disciplined me severely but he has not given me over to death. Psalm Taste and See is now in a new hardback edition. Godward Meditations on what life throws at you. We sleep like a baby for one third of our lives. That means something. They will need no light of lamp or sun for the Lord God will be their light.Revelation How to help the suicidal. Let the one who is thirsty come let the one who desires take the water of life without price. Revelation A free offer at the end. All the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. Isaiah How can I obey from the heartobey a command to feel what I dont feel Look at the Book on Psalm . How the End Comes. A blast as in the twinkling of An eye the final scraps of dim And gloomy ground. Cultivating the joy and beauty of modesty. The watchmen sing for joy for eye to eye they see the return of the Lord to Zion. Isaiah How beautiful are the feet of him who brings good news of happiness who publishes salvation who says to Zion Your God reigns. Is. Dive into Gods Ocean of Wonder. At the end is a video of what I do on writing leaves. As a lover of the primacy of God and Godcentered doctrine I think Ed Stetzers plea is wise. For Gods glory. The city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it for the glory of God gives it light and its lamp is the Lamb. Revelation Delight yourself in the trinity. I saw no temple in the city for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. Revelation Spatiality replaced. I am the Alpha and the Omega. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. Revelation I I am he who comforts you who are you that you are afraid of man who dies. Isaiah Fear is rooted in pride. The triune God is a love that is infinitely high above you eternally preceding you and welcoming you in. The Lord turns the rock into a pool of water the flint into a spring of water. Psalm . Dont lose hope for the flinty heart. You shall not pervert the justice due to the sojourner or to the fatherless or take a widows garment in pledge. Deuteronomy Bill Piper. Most serious father I have ever known. Bill Piper. Happiest father Ive ever known. RT RAANetwork The Juneteenth of the Soul by JemarTisby The righteous will never be moved. He is not afraid of bad news is heart is firm trusting in the Lord. Psalm The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom all those who practice it have a good understanding. Psalm God has put it in the kings hearts to hand over their royal power to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled. Rev. Steph Curry Faith and Grace in the face of ejection. Those on earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel at the beast. Rev. RT desiringGod If youre a stepchild on Fathers Day youre not alone. Jennifer Lahl on the movie Me Before You and the tragedy of physician assisted suicide. O God you have ordained that many things be done by prayer which would not otherwise be done James . Grant O God that we would pray They cursed God for the plague of the hail because the plague was so severe. Revelation . So futile. So tragically futile. Cultural machoness is a caricature an attempt for man to put on paraphernalia of manhood versus being a man. Many times the Lord delivered them but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity. Psalm They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass. Psalm The essence of all sin preferring anything to God Three keys to knowing how to live based on the structure of Psalm . Look at the Book. Our fathers rebelled at the Red Sea. Yet he saved them for his names sake that he might make known his mighty power. Psalm How to take the Bible to heart. Perfect masculinity on display. Great and amazing are your deeds O Lord God the Almighty Just and true are your ways O King of the nations Revelation He brought his people out with joy his chosen ones with singing. Psalm . Which assumes they were in. years We wait. Remembering one year later Why I loved Elisabeth Elliot. I have blotted out your sins like mist return to me for I have redeemed you. Isaiah Let the redeemed come Admiring is becoming. Helplessly deceived without sovereign grace He cannot deliver himself or say Is there not a lie in my right hand Isaiah Cannot. They conquered Satan by the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony for they loved not their lives even to death. Rev. Does God will sin done against us Look at the Book on Peter . There will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you You shall open wide to the poor in your land. Deuteronomy Should I finish school before I marry Six options to consider. You were a forgiving God to them but an avenger of their wrongdoings. Psalm Relationship restored. Consequences for wrongs. To the martyrs Rest until the number of your fellow servants should be complete who are to be killed as you have been. Revelation The wrath of the Lamb. Revelation . O linger over this terrible and wonderful phrase. Let it sink in till you tremble with joy. Spanking is illegal in my country now what How great are your works O Lord Your thoughts are very deep Psalm Let it be said again. Through tears. Followers of Jesus lay down their lives to save others not to slaughter. The powerful and slave called to the mountains Fall on us and hide us from the wrath of the Lamb for the day has come. Revelation Behold a white horse And its rider had a bow and a crown was given to him and he came out conquering and to conquer. Revelation What is there to see when my children watch me take communion Every time John Knight gets his bat on this ball he knocks it out of the park. An yearold takes on Hollywood. Man lives not by bread alone but by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Deuteronomy The beauty and behavior of a godly woman. minute video segment from a Look at the Book weekend. Take care lest you forget the Lord your God. Deuteronomy He led you through the terrifying wilderness with its fiery serpents and scorpions to do you good in the end. Deuteronomy The ransomed of the Lord shall return and everlasting joy shall be upon their heads sorrow and sighing shall flee away. Isaiah He humbled you and let you hunger. Deuteronomy Should we want to shame unbelievers Look at the Book on first Peter . The years of our life are seventy or even by reason of strength eighty they are soon gone and we fly away. Psalm Whats the difference between being called and being chosen From everlasting to everlasting you are God. Psalm . Nothing before. Nothing outlasting. All upholding. All defining. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples on the face of the earth. Deut You rule the raging of the sea. Psalm . Think this through all the way. My six favorite books on Romans. Studying the Bible in the flesh enables you to see what see Satan can see. Studying in the Spirit enables you to see the glories of God. The one who conquers I will grant to sit with me on my throne as I conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne. Revelation New history blog. Great Lewis sermon. A life forever changed. Mine. Those whom I love I reprove and discipline so be zealous and repent. Revelation God made your soul to be the blazing center of your soul. The one who conquers I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it. Revelation The Lord is our judge the Lord is our lawgiver the Lord is our king he will save us. Isaiah Cleanse your conscience of guilt. Guilt guts boldness. Look at the Book on Peter . The Lord will be the stability of your times. Isaiah Wedding expenses are careening out of control. My plea to couples and pastors. God does not punish innocent children for the sins of guilty parents. There are no innocent children. Deuteronomy Ezekiel It is the time to seek the Lordthat he may come and rain righteousness upon you. Hosea For what great nation is there that has a god so near to it as the Lord our God is to us whenever we call upon him Deuteronomy No to cremation but should I gift my body to science To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. Revelation The devil will throw some of you into prison so you may be tested... Be faithful to death and I will give you the crown of life. Rev. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death. Revelation When you hear a gospel sermon and it is not in all respects to your satisfaction. . . I died and behold I am alive forevermore and I have the keys of Death and Hades. Revelation Ask God to work in you the habit of praying for supernatural illumination each time you read the Bible. We do not see because we do not ask. Christ returned good for evil. Being called to follow him changes everything. Woe to those who trust in chariots because they are many but do not look to the Holy One of Israel or consult the Lord Isaiah Will you not revive us again that your people may rejoice in you Psalm You forgave the iniquity of your peoplecovered all their sin. You withdrew all your wrath you turned from your hot anger. Psalm You shall not fear the adversary for it is the Lord your God who fights for you. Deuteronomy How can I share conflicts with my spouse without falling into the sin of gossip Beloved building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit keep yourselves in the love of God. Jude It is these who cause divisions worldly people devoid of the Spirit. Jude Can you defend your hope in Christ Look at the Book on Peter . RT BCSMN Bethlehem Conference PastorsChurch Leaders hosts speakers Full list Register now Thus said the Lord God In returning and rest you shall be saved in quietness and in trust shall be your strength. Isaiah Are the first and last commandments essentially the same The Lord will cause his majestic voice to be heard and the blow of his arm to be seen in furious anger. Isaiah . Safety in Christ. Prolife from womb to tomb. An interview with Leonce Crump. The Lord exalts himself to show mercy to you. For the Lord is a God of justice blessed are all those who wait for him. Isaiah I want to remind you that Jesus who saved a people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed those who did not believe. Jude How our sex life manifests our soul health. My soul longs yes faints for the courts of the Lord my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God. Psalm Treasure Jesus More Than Safety. Look at the book on Peter . O Lord you are my God I will exalt you for you have done wonderful things plans formed of old faithful and sure. Isaiah I dont like my job now what On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food a feast of wellaged wine. Isaiah Tony Reinke with rare wisdom on digital detox for the sake of digital health. This is the Lord we have waited for him let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. Isaiah The reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth. Isaiah We were made for creative happy fruitful labor. Though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish they are doomed to destruction forever. Psalm The horror and the hope of slavery. Look at the Book weekend gleanings. When he killed them they sought him they repented and sought God earnestly. Psalm No one who denies the Son has the Father. John . This is why we must love and evangelize Muslims. The moon will be confounded and the sun ashamed for the Lord of hosts reigns on Mount Zion and his glory before his elders. Isaiah Why did Jesus get angry at the tomb of Lazarus Not your stock answer. In the realms of light give glory to the Lord in the coastlands give glory to the name of the Lord the God of Israel. Isaiah I will ponder all your work and meditate on your mighty deeds. Your way O God is holy. What god is great like our God Psalm Your way O God is holy. What god is great like our God Psalm If we confess our sins he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. John Are you on planet earth longing to be passionate for the renown of Jesus Early registration for Passion. Surely the wrath of man shall praise you the remnant of wrath you will put on like a belt. Psalm The Bible will never let us turn hell into an impersonal consequence for sin. Scoffers will come in the last days following their own sinful desires. They will say Where is the promise of his coming Peter You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth you have made summer and winter. Psalm What does it mean to meditate Look at the Book on James . Andrew Wilson on receiving the gift of a child with special needs. God my King is from of old working salvation in the midst of the earth. Psalm In a marriage between a complementarian and egalitarian who compromises Behold the Lord will lop the boughs with terrifying power the great in height will be hewn down and the lofty brought low. Isaiah It is better to suffer for doing good if that should be Gods will than for doing evil. Peter God wills our suffering. As wax melts before fire so the wicked shall perish before God Psalm Wicked wax vs. holy fire. The folly of contending with God. Hell exists for one cosmic insult and you and I are guilty. Don dont leave your daily devotions until there is a clear biblical statement of good news lodged in your mind and heart. How often does Scripture tell us to look at creation The Lord has founded Zion and in her the afflicted of his people find refuge. Isaiah Does anyone ask about your hope Look at the Book on Peter . The Lord of hosts has sworn As I have planned so shall it be and as I have purposed so shall it stand. Isaiah How do our unbaptized children relate to Gods NewCovenant promises The Lord has broken the staff of the wicked the scepter of rulers. Isaiah . It is as good as done. Dont side with them. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy. Psalm In God. in Christ. In faith. In one. Shout for joy to God all the earth sing the glory of his name. Psalm . The whole earth is commanded to sing the glory of God. How do I feed my soul in the hard books of the Old Testament Though you have not seen him you love him. Peter . Many saw and did not love. Blessed are the eyes of your hearts that see and love. I will punish the world for its evil I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant and lay low the pride of the ruthless. Isaiah Wail for the day of the Lord is near as destruction from the Almighty it will come Isaiah In Christ is safety. But it still comes. The hills gird themselves with joy the valleys deck themselves with grain they shout and sing together for joy. Psalm . Whose joy Isnt She Beautiful. Wisdom about the role of physical attraction in dating from Marshall Segal. You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy. Psalm This is the message of golden sunrises and sunsets. You have heard the steadfastness of Job and you have seen the purpose of the Lord how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. James Sing praises to the Lord for he has done gloriously let this be made known in all the earth. Isaiah . Through your mouth and email. I will give thanks to you O Lord for though you were angry with me your anger turned away. Isaiah The earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Isaiah . Hence the Internet. Hence beautiful feet. My friend honored God and his parents so why did he die so young Power belongs to God and to you O Lord belongs steadfast love. Psalm How Does God Bless the Hurting Look at the Book on Peter . The mouths of liars will be stopped. Psalm . Take heart dear slandered friend. And do not join them. Lifechanging confidence That I have a bloodbought absolutely certain inexpressibly happy totally undeserved future. If I see a church leader living in sexual sin should I expose him Humble yourselves before the Lord and he will exalt you. James . The way up is down. And God will do it not you. A new Abigail calls the sisters to resist unholy submissionto men who say they are women. He gives more grace. James . Because you cant run your car on yesterdays gas. With God nothing is random. TGC has an excerpt from Money Sex and Power. Burying our baby. Whose life was long as mine. Why do you need forgiveness Beware of all the bad answers. His staff will be over the sea he will lift it as he did in Egypt. Isaiah Make his past miracles your future hope. Shall the axe boast over him who hews with it or the saw magnify itself against him who wields it Isaiah Would a Sovereign God ever harm us Look at the Book on Peter . How do you know if you are called to missions Six costs and ten rewards to help you know. With God we shall do valiantly. Psalm . Without him your labor and life are like bubbles bursting as the drink is poured. No one has inspired and instructed me more consistently with stories from church history than May I have two wives Six vetoes. Upon Edom I Yahweh cast my shoe. Psalm . years ago this text strengthened our church to stay downtown in spite of the Metrodome. Do not fear for I have given King Og into your hand and all his people. Number . God will put an army in your hand like a pebble. After years in one pastorate I know the importance of David Mathiss call not to give up. We loathe this worthless food that God has miraculously given us. Numbers . Be careful what you hate. Everything you need to do his will and glorify his name and be eternally happy. Targets new transgender policy raises all sorts of questions. If you have been born again it was by Gods great mercy. Peter . Great mercy. Do you treat the walking dead with mercy This Momentary Marriage A Parable of Permanence Kindle is on sale for a week at .. Seven Resolutions for Finishing Well. Thoughts at a funeral. When Our Conduct Contradicts our Confession. My God in his steadfast love will meet me God will let me look in triumph on my enemies. Psalm Eric Metaxas on the stunning growth of the church in Nepal. Surely there is a reward for the righteous surely there is a God who judges on earth. Psalm Will you not revive us again that your people may rejoice in you Psalm This is the aim of new life. Helping your children learn the critical skills of digital selfcontrol. Tony Reinke introduces The Circle device. The flower falls and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. James The Lord will whistle for the fly of Egypt and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. Isaiah All do his bidding. Do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands Rezin and Syria and the son of Remaliah. Isaiah Make an end of their grumblings against me lest they die. Numbers Grumbling is a capital offense because it expresses unbelief. A wholeBible survey on the topic of sin. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Hebrews A Black Mans Hope for Complementarians. Let marriage be held in honor among all and let the marriage bed be undefiled. Hebrews Dont always follow your conscience. A Key to Enjoying Your Life. Look at the Book Peter . They went about in skins of sheep and goats destitute afflicted mistreated of whom the world was not worthy Hebrews Dont always follow your conscience. ttpdsr.gdOnthLW Yes. Why cannot God eternally love those who dont believe in him Some were tortured refusing to accept release so that they might rise again to a better life. Hebrews Moses considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt for he was looking to the reward. Hebrews What would cause Francis Chan to plead Please please please Death. And the gift of thinking about it. Judah has fallen because their speech and their deeds are against the Lord defying his glorious presence. Isaiah If Death Is Gain Should We Pray for Healing Leading through words in the digital age. Call upon me in the day of trouble I will deliver you and you shall glorify me. Psalm The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me. Psalm . The Giver gets the glory. Love your enemies. It will do you great good and hopefully them. Look at the Book Peter The Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty against all that is lifted upand it shall be brought low. Isaiah Come learn how to rebuke. The balance of confidence conviction and humility at work. The haughty looks of man shall be brought low and the pride of men humbled and the Lord alone will be exalted in that day. Isaiah He leads the humble in what is right and teaches the humble his way. Psalm Christ will appear a second time to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. Hebrews Are you No Powr of Hell No Scheme of Man. Mathis meditates. Shane and Shane sing. The power of storytelling in leadership. We have thought on your steadfast love O God.Psalm IIt has been a good use of the Lords day. A poem for mothers who like Mary have been pierced. Walk about Zion that you may tell the next generation that this is God our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever. Psalm Let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe. Hebrews God reigns over the nations God sits on his holy throne. Psalm You will eat meat until it comes out your nose because you preferred to meat to God. Numbers The people complained in the hearing of the Lord about their misfortunes when the Lord heard it his anger was kindled. Numbers If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house he would be utterly despised. Song of Songs The princes of the peoples gather as the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God. Psalm . Amazing. Sing praises to our King sing praises For God is the King of all the earth. Psalm Mathis point about parenting is exegetically perceptive and utterly crucial for raising children in Christ. Shout to God with loud songs of joy For the Lord the Most High is to be feared. Psalm It may take years to see the wisdom of Gods action. Become discerning in complex racial matters by building friendships across ethnic lines. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations I will be exalted in the earth Psalm If the Lord wills we will live. James . If we live it is his will. If we die it is his will. The Lord gives and takes away. The heart of the Christian faith. Colossians Look at the Book. One of the greatest texts on the gospel. I am many years older than a few days ago. Robert Dabney after losing one of his children. Jesus defined his disciples not as those who did the minimum but as those who loved him more than anything. The right kind of atheist. Tony Reinke on the new book about an unlikely friendship. Daniel Taylors new Novel Death Comes for the Deconstructionist and why I love it. Marriage is an unfathomable ocean of Godgiven meaning not a backyard swimming pool for lounging in as long as we feel like it. Jesus is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him since he always lives to intercede for them. Hebrews Love and hate are not decisions they are controlling preferences of the souls palate. Jesus holds his priesthood permanently because he continues forever. Hebrews Gavin Ortlund and John Owen team up to give profoundly helpful counsel on fighting nagging sin. Fourminute video clip on what it means to be gospelcentered. Gospel is the means. God is the goal. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness. Psalm Is there a blessing promised for returning good for evil Look at the Book on Peter . Ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Psalm Can pleasure in God really compete with the pleasures of porn O Lord make me know my end and what is the measure of my days let me know how fleeting I am Psalm Heres the dedicated website where you can get the gist of the new book Money Sex and Power. Every house is built by someone but the builder of all things is God. Hebrews When you hammer you are the hammer in his hand. When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin you consume like a moth what is dear to him. Psalm That God himself be dearest. RT RevKevDeYoung Help support Ligoniers TruthAtTheGames outreach as they distribute RCSproul books at the Olympics. https Money sex and power all have unique potential to magnify the worth and beauty of Christ. Man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather Psalm Heap it up in heaven Then you will gather. The greater mystery is not why I suffer but why the sinless Son of God would suffer for me. C. J. Mahaney at tg. Christ is not glorified by a spiritual experience that is not based on the knowledge of Chris. Whoever does evil has not seen God. John . So essential so seminal is the sight of transforming glory. Corinthians We rest on Thee our Shield and our Defender Thine is the battle Thine shell be the praise. E. Cherry The Lord takes pleasure in his people he adorns the humble with salvation. Psalm The silkworm is a remarkable type of Christ which when it dies yields us that of which we make such glorious clothing. Jonathan Edwards It is preposterous that Churchill might have been a pastor. One can imagine him in a pulpit but not on his knees. Manchester I Paul an old man and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus Philemon . How do you plan to spend your old age What is worship My answer I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required yet for loves sake I prefer to appeal to you. Philemon Transgression speaks to the heart and the heart of the worldly answers I see no God. Psalm How do you obey a command to feel Look at the Book on Peter blessed He who observes the wind will not sow and he who regards the clouds will not reap. Ecclesiastes Paralyzed by the feeling youve wasted your life Here are five ways forward. Great is the Lord who delights in the welfare of his servant Psalm The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Psalm The manuscript and video for Bondage of the Will Sovereignty of Grace and the Glory of God from TG. Oh magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt his name together Psalm Why did Jesus need a body Linger here with me for a moment. Older men are to be soberminded dignified selfcontrolled sound in faith in love and in steadfastness. Titus All the messages from Together for the Gospel are now freely available. The most serious monotheists in the world are demons. James Bless those who revile you. Look at the Book on Peter . Cremation. I have a modest proposal for the evangelical church. Folly is set in many high places. Ecclesiastes Should Christians partner with nonChristians on social issues Praise befits the upright. Psalm The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing he frustrates the plans of the peoples. Psalm Joyful confidence. A bribe corrupts the heart. Ecclesiastes RT MattChandler One of the best sermons on pastoral ministry I have ever heard. Listen deeply pastors Agreed. I think you will like this new minute video on seeing the truth of Scripture through its beauty. Risk your life for a cause worthy dying for not for thrill seeking. He spoke and it came to be he commanded and it stood firm. Psalm RT davidclifford Come finish college with us. Degree Completion Program BCSMN. Heres the video. The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. Timothy . The only hope for home. All Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching for reproof for correction for training in righteousness. Timothy Let Jimmy Needham inspire you to memorize Scripture. Sunday is good for putting everburning fuel on the fire. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning. Ecclesiastes It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting . . . the living will lay it to heart. Ecclesiastes God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth and they may escape from the snare of the devil. Timothy The Lord preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride. Psalm Oh how abundant is your goodness you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you. Psalm RT betweenworlds A good word from RevKevDeYoung on marks of healthy complementarianism Heres a taste https His anger is but for a moment and his favor for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night but joy comes with the morning. Psalm Prince. The day the music died. Growing up in his town. Fellow grandparents it is emphatically not our job to spoil our grandchildren. You have turned for me my mourning into dancing you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness. Psalm He who loves money will not be satisfied with money nor he who loves wealth with his incom. Ecclesiastes Why has God blessed America so amazingly The answer of Psalm . Look at the Book. What makes the Islamic State look like boy scouts The voice of the Lord strips the forests bare and in his temple all cry Glory Psalm Sometimes the prayer you prayed times is answered in attempt . Dont give up. The Lord is my strength and my shield in him my heart trusts and I am helped. Psalm Oh Lord save your people and bless your heritage Be their shepherd and carry them forever. Psalm Loss of interest in the word of God is loss of interest in God. Is the Christian life a life of peace or a life of war Wait for the Lord be strong and let your heart take courage wait for the Lord Psalm Femininity is a glory that only the God could dream. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living Psalm Election gives evangelism power. Look at the Book on Timothy . You have said Seek my face. My heart says to you Your face Lord do I seek. Psalm I fight for joy by fighting against the joykilling sin in my life. One thing have I asked of the Lord that will I seek after to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. Psalm Forever with increasing joy. The Lord is my light and my salvation whom shall I fear The Lord is the stronghold of my life of whom shall I be afraid Psalm My father and my mother have forsaken me but the Lord will take me in. Psalm Never forsaken. Never. Ten principles for personal productivity. Those who desire to be rich fall into a snare into many harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. Timothy How to read the Bible for yourself. Three suggestions. You shall do no injustice in court. You shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great. Leviticus Matthew Westerholm on the Second Coming of Christ. Not for speculation but preparation. I love you O Lord my strength. Psalm . It is the Lords day. Tell him your heart. TGC National Conference really cheap till Monday. Better its Reformation . Better yet its Galatians. In much wisdom is much vexation and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. Ecclesiastes Your hospital stay is coming. Joni Eareckson Tada has been there and can help. A righteous man sings and rejoices. Proverbs I invite you to join me for minutes on how the mind serves the heart. By my God I can leap over a wall. Psalm Whatever needs to be done. Whether nimble or not. For you save a humble people but the haughty eyes you bring down. Psalm The did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Thessalonians Ponder why these two alternatives. Whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished. Proverbs Whether by marriage or by singleness true freedom is selfgiving. Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is crooked in his ways. Proverbs The righteous are bold as a lion. Proverbs The gospel triumphs through suffering. Look at the Book on Peter . Wondrously show your steadfast love O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand. Psalm A personal update and a sneak peak of my book in process. Let another praise you and not your own mouth. Proverbs Whether we live or die we live with him. With him With him Thessalonians Here is the whole collection of video clips where I try to explain the content of my new book A Peculiar Glory. The call of God contains the commitment of God. So it says He who calls you is faithful he will surely do it. Thessalonians Jesus is our real living precious present friend and we know him through the Book. Millions persuade themselves that Godneglect is Godrespect when it is in fact Godreject. Romans A flattering mouth works ruin. Proverbs Remember Jesus Christ What a command to a young pastor Why Look at the Book on Timothy . Here are four ways to use everyday. Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips. Proverbs Tremble over the absolute sovereignty of God over your life. For lack of wood the fire goes out and where there is no whisperer quarreling ceases.Proverbs Like a lame mans legs which hang useless is a proverb in the mouth of fools. Proverbs Lit dynamite is good but not in your pocket. Purposeful repetition in corporate worship. Fearless women in a world of opportunities. We do not want you to be uninformed about those who are asleep that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope Thessalonians Purposeful repetition in corporate worship. Theres a new special mercy from God for every new special trouble that each day brings. This is the will of God your sanctification that you abstain from sexual immorality. Thessalonians If your enemy is hungry give him bread to eat if he is thirsty give him water to drink...and the Lord will reward you. Proverbs It is not glorious to seek ones own glory. Proverbs soft tongue will break a bone. Proverbs Two wonders I confess The wonders of his glorious love and my unworthiness. E.C. Clephane Singleness. A robust longing for eternity helps us with our discontentment by increasing our restlessness. May the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all. Thessalonians . Pray this with us. Whoever says to the wicked You are in the right will be cursed by peoples abhorred by nations. Proverbs . Sooner or later. O Lord you hear the desire of the afflicted. Psalms Jon Bloom on how to resist temptations mirage moment. Do not toil to acquire wealth be discerning enough to desist. When your eyes light on it it is gone. Proverbs Gospel truth confronts the lies of selfhate. Those who know your name put their trust in you for you O Lord have not forsaken those who seek you. Psalm Sunday morning with the Webb Simpsons. The gospel and marital conflict. Spoken word. So many is and selfies so few wes and uses. The Lord sits enthroned forever he has established his throne for justice. Psalm Does joy in the face of pain confirm our election Look at the Look on Thessalonians . My heart leaps when I hear David Michael in this video invite you to this CDG conference in Indianapolis. You received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. Thessalonians Andy Warhols essence packaging eyecandy avoiding intimacy craving attentionthe driving force of modernity. Do we go into soul sleep after we die Whoever sows injustice will reap calamity. Proverbs Complete assurance for incomplete people. This text in Hebrews is stupendous. O Lord our Lord how majestic is your name in all the earth You have set your glory above the heavens. Psalm If a man does not repent God will whet his sword he has bent and readied his bow. Psalm To float through life is to drift off course. Love not sleep. Proverbs The horse is made ready for the day of battle but the victory belongs to the Lord. Proverbs John is not enough to grasp the fullness of Gods love for his children. Look at the Book on Thess. . You O Lord are a shield about me my glory and the lifter of my head. Proverbs RT JemarTisby This is an important piece by challies. Well worth the read. Should preachers use iPad and doodle on a screen like I do in Look at the Book No. The Lord of hosts has purposed and who will annul it His hand is stretched out and who will turn it back Isaiah Many are the plans in the mind of a man but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand. Proverbs When a mans folly brings his way to ruin his heart rages against the Lord. Proverbs . God doesnt call pastors to be eloquent he calls them to be authentic. Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity. . . Proverbs . So integrity does not always make rich. The kings favor is like the clouds that bring the spring rain. Proverbs . How happy then the favor of God Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you Jesus You have none but what God gives. John Jesus was even calling God his own Father making himself equal with God. John My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. John Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke The strap of his sandal I am not worthy to untie. John Will not God give justice to his elect who cry to him day and night Luke Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Psalm No casual trifling. But exuberant and lowly gladness. I tell you there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Luke How I use my iPhone iPad podcasts and audio books. Any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. Luke Keep your heart with all vigilance for from it flow the springs of life. Proverbs God creates faith. Faith yields love. Love produces work. Work is steadfast. And God gets thanked. Look at the Book. Is the Christian commitment to diversity a veneer of politically correct tolerance or a Crosscentered passion There is a death appointed by which you are to glorify God. John . Be ready by always prizing him above life. Better is a dinner of herbs where love is than a fattened ox and hatred with it. Proverbs I slept with my girlfriend now what Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is in your power to do it. Proverbs Thou my souls Shelter Thou my high Tower Raise Thou me heavenward O Power of power. Forgaill Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble with it. Proverbs What does the world most need from us Even in laughter the heart may ache. Proverbs Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. John No more important question Am I of the truth Is Gods truth my deepest love Your prayers hang on your marriage. Look at the Book on Peter . Single folks should probably ponder this too. Jesus When the Spirit of truth comes he will glorify me. John . O to be filled with this Christconsumed Spirit Many a victim has she laid low and all her slain are a mighty throng. Proverbs Like oxen led gladly to the slaughter. How does my faith and obedience work together in the Christian life It may be that the Lord put you in the discouraging mess you are in so that you could do what Moses did in Exodus . Fasting after Lent is like the first novel you read after high school graduationthat you dont have to. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. Prov. In a courtroom I would not swear on the Bible. Heres why. I love to think of the glory that the servants of Christ will receive who ministered faithfully and got no attention in this world. In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence. Proverbs Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road while he opened to us the Scriptures Luke Strange when tears come. In worship during a hymn noticing flower blossoms blooming from the thorns woven around the cross. Ye blind behold your savior come and leap ye lame for joy. Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up. John The hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. John No human resistance nor satanic blinding can stand when God in mercy grants repentance. Timothy You have sorrow now but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice and no one will take your joy from you. John Thief Remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus Truly I say to you today you will be with me in Paradise. Luke Jesus said Father forgive them for they know not what they do. Luke From now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God. Luke Being in an agony he prayed more earnestly and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. Luke A theology of the resurrection from Don Carson. I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again strengthen your brothers. Luke Moved by the awesome intentionality of Jesus death I wrote this poem to him. He who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke Your wife is an heir of the universe. Take heed whom you live with Look at the Book on Peter . I heard of you by the hearing of the ear but now my eye sees you therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Job Ten ways Easter changes everything. Who has first given to me that I should repay him Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine. Job Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth Tell me if you have understanding. Job God does not regard any who are wise in their own conceit. Job Ten of Johns chapters deal with the final week of Jesuss life. This week is an opportunity not an obligation. Are you living a halflife with God God thunders wondrously with his voice he does great things that we cannot comprehend. Job You shall take no bribe for a bribe blinds the clearsighted and subverts the cause of those who are in the right. Exodus What does not mean to honor your wife as the weaker vessel Look at the Book on Peter . You shall not pervert the justice due to your poor in his lawsuit. Exodus Ten of Johns chapters deal with the final week of our Lords life. This week is an opportunity not an obligation. tpbit.lypYHhw Seven simple tips to refresh your prayer life. God has come to test you that the fear of him may be before you that you may not sin. Exodus I invite you to join us at Desiring God as we walk together through Holy Week with glimpses his glory for each day. By a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Hebrews Be infants in evil but in your thinking be mature. Corinthians My plea for radical Christian wartime living in the retirement years. Any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. Luke An interview with Books at a Glance about A Peculiar a Glory. Jesus noticed how they chose the places of honor. Luke Yes he does. Do not fear those who kill the body and after that have nothing more that they can do. Luke This is indeed Gods doing. Palm Sunday and the Passion to follow. Did not I weep for him whose day was hard Job Two seconds after saying History is bunk that statement is history. When God is taken into account the material universe is an infinitely small part of universal existence. Jonathan Edwards. This was the greatest love The greatest person made the greatest sacrifice for the greatest gift to the least deserving. A beautiful woman is a person not a body. minute video God has come to test you that the fear of him may be before you that you may not sin. Exodus One ray from the throne of God is better than the noonday splendour of created wisdom. Spurgeon Does Paul have a deeper grasp of divine truth in his later epistles than his earlier ones Behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdomand to turn away from evil is understanding. Job Already past a fifthcentury life expectancy St. Patrick answered the call. Correction Phillip Holmes with a compassionate critique of unintended human costs of overreaching socialism. He goes to bed rich but will do so no morehe opens his eyes and his wealth is gone. Job Love your wife for the Lords sake. Look at the Book on Peter . The Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Exodus Where is name of God hollow in our lives No matter how dark society becomes we hold to the steadfast hope of Christ. The Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Exodus Lord give you emissaries favor in every culture. Without the shedding of blood forgiveness does not happen. Hebrews The wrong kind of asceticism torments the self the right kind kills the selfness. C. S. Lewis Essays p. Why do we celebrate instinctively Because we were made to rejoice. Jesus forbids any sense of self pity because of sacrifice for his name. Every sacrifice here comes back fold. Luke A new free book from John Grisham and a pretty compelling TED talk on Focused Ultrasound Moses cried to the Lord and the Lord showed him a log and he threw it into the water and the water became sweet. Exodus . Sweet If Jesus loved Lazarus enough to let him die what can we learn from this story about true love Look at the Book. Is enhanced selfregard the root of mental health Its an old issue that does not go away. All rewards for obedience to God are gifts of grace not earned privileges. Luke . Our only claim is a gracious promise. Ephesians Good news for approval junkies. Christ entered into heaven itself to appear before the face of God on our behalf. Hebrews We have a new free book of morning and evening readings to help you Treasure your Savior during Holy Week. Behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdom and to turn away from evil is understanding. Job What would your life be like if you could see all Gods actions as mercies to you He goes to bed rich but will do so no more he opens his eyes and his wealth is gone. Job Covenantal sex never made so much sense as it does now in a Tough and Tinder culture. Is my dating relationship idolatrous A question we can answer with a better one What are you pursuing The Lord gave his people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Exodus Yes Lord wherever the breakthrough is needed. He who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke The harvest is plentiful but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborer so. Luke No one knows who the Father is except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Luke Islams only hope. Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Luke Except a boat in a storm. The Bible always has some answers to the question Why. But never all the answers. The only new thing in the world is the history you dont know. Harry Truman Ecclesiastes Do you believe it honors Jesus more to trust him to forgive the sin you are about to commit than to trust him for the power not to do it There will be no more hail so that you may know that the earth is the Lords. Exodus Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. Sitting at Jesus feet listening to him. Luke Now Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eightythree years old when they spoke to Pharaoh. Exodus The first two chapters of the Bible are the seedbed of key biblical themes. Here are . When we are judged by the Lord we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world. Corinthians Why did Jesus let Lazarus die Look at the Book on John . Jenni Naselli with a bigGod view of Csections natural birth and the comparison game. Whoever receives this child in my name receives me. Luke Christexalting motives in mercy ministry make all the difference. Should Christian physicians help a patient die if the law permits it Thinking through what is clear and ambiguous. I try to please everyone in everything I do not seeking my own advantage but that of many that they may be saved. Corinthians God has made my heart faint the Almighty has terrified me. Job Twas grace that taught to fear. . . No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. Luke Remember Lots wife. Jesus is not dead silent or disinterested. He is powerfully alive to change even the hardest hearts. I discipline my body and keep it under control lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified. Corinthians Headscarves and Hashtags Other Voices in the SameGod Debate. The Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel get their living by the gospel. Corinthians Dont idealize bivocational. Do you read a Gospel the same way you read an Epistle Look at the Book on John Justification is the gate not the garden. Join David Mathis for five days with a short video each day to revitalize your habits of grace. Do not fear only believe. Luke Oprah recently explained the joy of Psalm to Stephen Colbert. What can we learn As each has received a gift use it to serve one another as good stewards of Gods varied grace. Peter Before you cover yourself with tattoos ask Would I fix my hair in a way I could not change for years A blindness at work. Justification is the gate not the garden. Justin Taylors tribute to Jerry Bridges. He who converts his neighbor has performed the most practical Christianpolitical act of all. C. S. Lewis Essays p. Jerry Bridges Five lessons from a remarkable life of faith. God sovereignly designed the very best world for the accomplishment of his goal to magnify his glory. Less than best is not always sin. Corinthians The midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them. Exodus The kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power. Corinthians My sin against God is a log. Your sin against me is a speck. Before I do eye surgery on you I need heart surgery from God. Luke The free man has his cruise control set at and hes worshiping Jesus. Happy and free. While the slaves go by. I wrote this so that you might have something Godcentered and encouraging to give to your friend in the hospital. Whoever has two tunics share with him who has none and whoever has food do likewise. Luke They might ask about your hope. If you must hand over your child to a basket in the bullrushes do not despair as if God does not care. Exodus John the Baptist reproved Herod for all the evil things that Herod had done. Not just adultery. Luke Do you not know that the saints will judge the world Corinthians Jon Bloom Earnestly desire spiritual gifts. Why How Behold I bring you good news of great joy. Luke . Linger over the word great . Ponder how much better this is than joy. Casinos win in the end because God reigns over all apparent random events. Being filled with the Holy Spirit is a sense of joyful unworthiness in the experience of grace overflowing in love and praise. Luke . What did the Satanconquering saints Revelation who were being slaughtered by the beast pray for Husbands should be heads not idols. One more Look at the Book on Peter . For years now this big God theology has proven to be an antidote for despair. Needham on precious sovereignty. He called us out of darkness into his marvelous light to declare his excellencies. And what is this light The light of his excellencies. If God reigns over every event can we discover his will with a coin flip Oh Lord forbid that in any day of darkness or season of suffering I would ever count you as my enemy. R. C. Sproul longs for a Your God Is Too Small rallying cry for the greatness of Christ. Turn every sin back on Satans head and turn this sin and slavery into sending as you did with Jesus at Calvary and Joseph in Egypt. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. Romans Sweet peace of conscience. If you dont want God more than you want anything else you are not a Christian. The benefits of the word of God are greater than the benefits of anything else in the world. I suppose the same people who say you cant command the emotions would also say you cant command the lame to walk or the dead to rise. Where does a wifes fearless hope come from in her marriage to an unbeliever Look at the Book on Peter . Occasionally weep deeply over the life you hoped would be. Grieve the losses. Then wash your face. Trust God. And embrace the life you have. The riddles of God are more satisfying than the solutions of men. Reinke on how God comforted Job. I joyfully wrote the foreword for Habits of Grace that launches today. Which means I highly commend it. Why did Jesus cry out Why have you forsaken me if he already knew why They spit on him and covered his face and struck him. And they received him with blows. Mark . Spit. Strike. Blows. For you. In condoning or encouraging biblical complaints before God beware lest you justify that for which Job had to repent in dust and ashes. I joyfully wrote the foreword for Habits of Grace that launches today. Which means I highly commend it. Love is the main thing in saving faith. Why from Scripture I believe Edwards is right about this. The high priest asked him Are you the Messiah the Son of the Blessed And Jesus said I am. Mark Men and women who play the helpless victim of their sexual lusts are done for. In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. Job Whatever the success rates of chemo or radiation know this resurrection therapy is effective. Jason Meyer. Is Christ your trust As the answered prayer of demons goes worse than they hoped so the unanswered prayer of saints goes better than they dreamed. Mark What fills an old mans mouth My mouth is filled with your glory all the day. Do not cast me off in the time of old age. Psalm They struck Jesus head with a reed and spit on him and knelt down in homage to him. Mark . Near the bottom of his condescension. We will all stand before the judgment seat of God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Romans Selfcontrol is a response to what you believe to be at stake. Life is based on what you believe to be true and valuable. Really believe. If the doctor said take these pills daily for a year or you will die. Would you Everybody is disciplined if the stakes are high enough. A believers last day is his best day his dyingday is better than his birthday. Thomas Brooks Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. Romans Six things submission is not. Seven ways to serve a nominal Christian you fear is unsaved. If you knew that clicking on the porn site would mean instant death or not clicking would mean would you click So you can stop. minute video on love. Its not just a decision. Its an overflow a work of God within us. If your aim were to see and enjoy the Grand Canyon would you move to Florida and pray for a vision Jesus is there to see in the Book. True beauty is not in makeup or clothing. Nor in skin hair complexion or shape. Look at the Book Peter . Owe no one anything except to love each other for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. Romans Four reasons to not fear sharing your personal struggles with nonChristian friends. How many Bible verses would you memorize if I promised to pay you for each in days So lets not use the word cant any more. Who has hardened himself against the LORD and succeeded Job A world without God is an unreal world. Dazzling darkness. Dazzling dizzying deadly darkness. Christians should have a corner on understatement. The cross was not a tragic event God turned for good. It was a loving event God planned for good. No hope no cope. Corinthians One of the best preparations for death is a thorough knowledge of the Greek grammar. Philip Lindsay The saving power of a fearless wife. Look at the Book on Peter . Hillary Bernie Donald and me. Its not what you think. But I hope you like it. Especially boomers. And the first thing the Psalms say about the righteous is that they find pleasure in listening to Gods Word. Psalm Christian you may be bored with your life God is not Deeds are not adequate to communicate the meaning of deeds. False christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders to lead astray if possible the elect. Mark All Godexalting joy is based on Godrevealed knowledge of the allsatisfying God. My simple acronym for approaching daily life with authenticity. Arians demanded no creed but the Bible precisely so that they could use biblical language to evade biblical truth. You cant love him if you dont know him. The more fully you know him the more fully you can love him and treasure him and delight in him. Do you love loving God more than you love God Sam Crabtree thinking about corporate worship. Christian Hedonism does not make a god out of pleasure. It says that we all make a god out of what we take most pleasure in. God or nonGod. questions to diagnose your smart phone usage. Tony Reinke interviews Alastair Roberts. Rub the nose of your heart in the beauty of the knowledge your mind sees in Scripture. Proverbs Christian unity that depends on confessional neglect or ambiguity is no honor to the clear Christ. minute video teaching on Peter Called to Be Lights in the World. Vancouver Look at the Book. No men can be lords of our faith though they may be helpers of our joy. John Owen. Atticus Finch and the Fight for Justice Remembering Harper Lee. By Jasmine Holmes. What would you say if your wife was ripped away Meditating on Monty Williams testimony. The devil really hates the Bible. Set yourself degrees against him in this. A soul full of trust in God finds prayer almost effortless. But a soul full of doubt finds prayer a heavy burden. The glory of kings is in the wealth and peace of their subjects the glory of Christ is in the grace and holiness of his subjects. Owen Just reading the seven headings is worth it. Why men should speak out on abortion. A complementarian boyfriend and an egalitarian girlfriend should they marry or split The knowledge of a proud man is the throne of Satan in his mind. John Owen What is man that you make so much of him and that you set your heart on him visit him every morning test him every moment Job For wives of unbelieving husbands. What does the apostle Peter say How relevant is this to all of us LAB. To know a thing as the mind of God and not to assent unto its truth implieth a contradiction. John Owen What does God promise in Psalm Delight in the Lord and you get the desires of your heart minute video. Atheist deep down under the suppressing work of your heart you know God exists. Do you have a passion with Jesus never to make void the word of God Mark Before any particular command or teaching is in view Fourminute video intro to our book Think It Not Strange Navigating Trials in the New America. Mans chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Forever includes now. If not in this life not ever. We need no other arguments to prove that God made the world but itself. John Owen If your name is in the Book of Life your calling is not to stay alive but to stay in love. If your hand causes you to sin cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell. Mark Come home Muslims. Come home Jewish people. Not to the mount or the city. But to the crucified and risen Savior. If anyone would be first he must be last of all and servant of all. Mark Not obeying all. But making sacrifices to do good to all. Saved by grace but not without war. Look at the Book on Timothy . The story of Joseph and his boundlessly dysfunctional family is an inexhaustible source of wisdom and hope. The glory of Christ crucified is so real in the apostolic word that Paul ascribes the failure to see it to witchcraft. Galatians Doesnt the Bible command Christians to put homosexuals to death Responding to Bible critics. People saw the incarnate Word and did not see God. People read the inspired Word and do not see God. Perhaps in the same ratio. Thinking about coming to TG in April There is a preconference on the beauty of complementarity. Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshiped. Job O for such a response to tragic loss minute message on precision with words and the precondion of a Godcentered human will for knowing divine truth. Just because they rhyme doesnt mean you have to fritter with Twitter. Matthew Should Christians tolerate false religions Shall we receive good from God and shall we not receive evil In all this Job did not sin with his lips. Job Herods morality Better to kill an innocent prophet than to break a wicked promise. Mark He who loves not lives not he who lives by the Life can not die.Raymund Lull. Pastors can I have minutes with you before tomorrow please You can fall in love with your calling again. If you have no debts and in your pocket you have more wealth than of Americans. Stay out of debt. Free to serve. Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and how he has had mercy on you. Mark What blessing are you willing to wrestle God for Its not just an Old Testament question. Romans . If you did not wake up in hell this morning or in a thousand miseries that befell the world last night there is great reason for thanks. The promise of life is reached by Christexalting grace. Therefore it is embraced by faith not earned by selfexalting works. Romans Seven Questions to Ask Before You Watch Deadpool. Be a dolphin in this culture not a jellyfish Yet most I thank thee not for any deed But for the sense thy living self did breed That fatherhood is at the great worlds core. Zwemer Abraham Lincolns massive losses led him to Christ and not away unlike his wife. So it seems. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven whose sins are covered. Romans Beneath feet of ocean the blood of Jesus. Young or old pray that the Lord be pleased with the plan you will not fulfill when he takes you home. A historical survey of the entire Bible. Why the Zika Virus Shouldnt Lead to More Abortions. Clear and sharp as crystal from John Knight. Bible reading is like opening a great window of bright morning sun on the roaches of sin masquerading as satisfying pleasures in our hearts. Philip Holmes raises questions and gives counsel about racism and church discipline. The word of God is not so often rejected as untrue as it is avoided as undesirable. Provide knowledge and pray for desire. I do most of my Bible reading and much of my secondary reading with Logos on the iPad. Heads up the new mobile version includes clippings. We are so accustomed to our western prosperity we think a tithe is generous. Because he holds fast to me in love I will deliver him I will protect him because he knows my name. God. Psalm Jesus said Whoever does the will of God he is my brother and sister and mother. Mark The video of Char Ransoms entire memorial service is here. Our best joys now are inexpressible and glorified Peter but little compared to what is coming. It is the greatest folly to go from day to day leaving your eternal destiny to an uncertain outcome. We will sing bloody songs forever By design. Go measure space beyond the furthest star. Gods truth is higher though human vows be broken and every man a liar. Romans A Sweet and Bitter Providence Sex Race and the Sovereignty of God. The story of Ruth. Those who are well have no need of a physician but those who are sick. Mark Do you need Jesus Jesus suffered to keep you from sinning. Look at the Book on Peter . What a great combination Tony Reinke on Michael Reeves on breaking through the despair of unbelief. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them and then they will fast. Mark Why do Christians go to church Whats the point And why on Sundays Listen boomers Do not be sluggish but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. Hebrews I quoted Stetzer on Nominals to Nones at our Pastors Conference Now he takes it further To live my days with Jacobs limp. Small price to pay to see the face of God. The aim of Godsent consequences of already forgiven sin. Laban to Jacob. It is in my power to do you harm. Genesis . No Laban. It is not. Not ultimately. Genesis Fasting is commanded in Islam but not in Christianity. So why do we do it God did not permit him to harm me. Genesis Jacob about Laban. If the child of God is harmed it is by divine permission. This is the best presentation on slavery in the Bible Im aware of. Peter Williams hour video. Do not aim at selfexalting fame. Aim at Christexalting fruitfulness. Cf. Corinthians Thanks to Andrew Wi I just wrote a new tribute to Char Ransom. Cant let her go so easy. Jesus went through all Galilee preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons. Mark Truth arrives. Demons fly. The only folks fit to make suggestions for better ways to connect with God in worship are those who have leaned in. The Christian looks at Scripture and says I can no more believe this is false than that the universe made itself. If the goal of your life is not part of the goal of the Creator it is futile. Three sightings of the glory of Jesus. A funeral message for precious friend Char Ransom. With regard to this sect Christianity we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Acts This is neither our aim nor our nemesis. Haman recounted to them the splendor of his riches. Esther And the next day he was hanged. They departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy. Matthew Joy mingles with many unlikely emotions. Few things will waken and deepen your prayer life like joining Jon Bloom in these prayers. I love this. To this day I have had the help that comes from God. Acts Romantic love is a wonderful gift and a terrible god. If I perish I perish. Esther How to view your life in the path of love for a perishing people. When Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage to him he was filled with fury. Esther The roots of rage. What is the bigger aim of the book of Proverbs Look at the Book on Proverbs . Do you think I cannot appeal to my Father and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels Matthew A call for tough skin tender hearts open ears and Biblesaturated minds in African American a History month. My childs greatest need. Enter into the joy of your master. Matthew Is his joy your joy No other joy survives. At Desiring God we never get over the wonder that God is committed to the Godcentered joy of his people. The Lords double seal on his own foreknown by the Lord forsaking sin. Timothy Grace and love like mighty rivers poured incessant from aboveHeavens peace and perfect justice kissed guilty world in love. W. Rees Trip Lee Stephen Um and I talk for minutes about whether every church should pursue being multiethnic. Simplifying the aim of all our ministry labors. Heaven and earth will pass away but my words will not pass away. Jesus. Matthew Because lawlessness will be increased the love of many will grow cold. Matthew It doesnt have to be you. Pray to be white hot. Fix your eyes and heart on the Bible. What does that mean Look at the Book on Proverbs . If President Obama asked you to join a conference call with heads of state it would be amazing. Prayer is a billion times more amazing. Winning the spiritual war in weight loss. The wonders that lie on the surface of Gods word are immeasurably moving. Not feeling the wonder means not seeing the plain. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. Matthew . Good deeds done for bad reasons become bad deeds. When this poor stammering tongue lies silent in the grave Then in the nobler sweeter song Ill sing your power to save. Cowper Spiritual growth is about recapturing our awe. Parenting is an art. While painting artists dont use manuals. But without the Bible we dont know what painting is. How to know God closely and personally with peace. Few people write on this as richly as Jon Bloom. They took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left over. Matthew Givers never lack. Know for certain your offspring will be sojourners and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. Genesis . Plan. As many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Acts This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased listen to him. Matt. Listen to him. Listen to him. Listen to him. I am ready not only to be imprisoned but even to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. Paul. Acts The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone this was the Lords doing and it is marvelous in our eyes Matthew In all my labor strain and quest The peace of Jesus is my rest.Better is this tranquil sweatThan ease and with it fret. The Lord said It was I who kept you from sinning against me. Genesis Four lessons on humbly receiving feedback from harsh people. They glorified God saying Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life. Acts David Mathis models how to pray the Scriptures for leaders and others we love. And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you Matthew What does it mean to apply your heart to the word Look at the Book on Proverbs . A trailer for the second coming. He was transfigured before them and his face shone like the sun. Matthew If we have the Holy Spirit do we need other teachers Thinking through John . Truly I say to you unless you turn and become like children you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Matthew All the video and audio of the justfinished Bethlehem Conference for Pastors is NOW free online. All the video and audio of the justfinished Bethlehem Conference for Pastors is not free online. The Lord rained on Sodom and Gomorrah sulfur and fire from the Lord out of heaven. Genesis I warrant you we should be leagues ahead of our times if we kept closely to the word of God. Spurgeon When words dont work you have found joy inexpressible and full of glory. Is anything too hard for the Lord Genesis Sirs what must I do to be saved And they said Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved you and your household. Acts If we are faithless he remains faithful. Does this mean what you think Look at the Book. Timothy . How Simon knew Christ. Blessed are you Simon. Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you but my Father who is in heaven. Matthew RT desiringGod Manuscript and replay video now available from John Pipers BCSPasCon opening session. How do I reconcile my wartime lifestyle and speaking at expensive conferences The Lord opened Lydias heart to give heed to what was said by Paul. Acts Lord let there be Lydias today. Tony Reinke interviews Paul Heintzman on his book about Leisure and Spirituality. Bethlehem Conference for Pastors and Church Leaders live now. Now O God strengthen my hands. Nehemiah minute video teaching on the link between It is finished and Go therefore and make disciples. Heaven and earth may fade and fleeFirstborn light in gloom declineBut while God and I shall be I am His and He is mine. What is discipleship and how is it done A primer. There arose a sharp disagreement so that they separated from each other. Acts Between two lovers of Christ and each other Desire the word. Taste the Lord. Peter What comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart and this defiles a person. Matthew Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up. Matthew You Didnt Say Goodbye. Tom Eickhoff remember the very much loved Char Ransom. On dating with a sexual history. Damaged goods If not this something else to deepen your No to physician assisted suicide. Through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. Acts No other way. Discipleship . In the fourth watch of the night he came to them walking on the sea. Matthew All threats all depths under his feet. Mary when your greeting came to my ears the baby in my womb leaped for joy. Luke Some approve killing such ones. Rescue those who are being taken away to death hold back those who are stumbling to the slaughter. Proverbs God does not want us to be strong. God wants to be our strength. Never mind that the Black Panthers saw it coming. Never mind that the KKK fell short of this. You formed my inward parts you knitted me together in my mothers womb. Psalm Let Tom Steller we have stood together on this for years inspire you to profile action today. Preparing for the our Conference for Pastors and Church Leaders has made me more eager to see many of you there. What truths do we need from outside the Bible The kingdom of heaven is like treasure in a field for which a man goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Matthew Your calling is not to stay alive but to stay in love. God knows. Why has that phrase been a rock of comfort and stability for millions Reading well is a mediator of glory. Ephesians God will reward every wrong endured. Look at the Book on Peter If you prayed for the release of Saeed Abedini in Iran pray for a healing restoration with his family. You have filled Jerusalem with your teaching. Yes Lord Yes. Yes. Every city. Do it in every city. Teaching Acts He kept me. He kept me I still believe Can you believe it What sort of man is this that even winds and sea obey him Matthew The Beast the Book and the Beauty of the Lamb. What I said to Passion . An angel of the Lord struck down Hrod because he did not give God the glory and he was eaten by worms and breathed his last. Acts Christians are the saddest people in the world. And the happiest. A sermon clip. Dont surrender the good in exclusive commitment to the best. The Bible as distant education. The king granted me what I asked for the good hand of my God was upon me. Nehemiah A Christians sorrow is real but a Christians joy is eternal. Gods selfexaltation is an act of love for people whose joy is in Gods greatness. Why I think Romans deals with Christian experience. Part of the debate at TGC. Behold you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken for she is another mans wife. Genesis Peters counsel on how to respond to mistreatment. Look at the Book. Let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servants who delight to fear your name. Nehemiah Delight to fear gets heard. Add to your strategies for dealing with suffering this one seeing yourself in the lineage of sorrow. Can my name get erased from the Book of Life Whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Jesus. Matthew Trip Lee on making much of miserable moments of injustice in the hope the gospel and perfect justice. No one knows the Father but the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Mt. If anyone knows God Jesus has done it. You will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake to bear witness before them and the Gentiles. Matthew Dear Dr. King. My letter to the last nationally compelling Godward voice for civil rights. Is God sovereign over my free will The answer depends on how we define our terms. Rebellion at Babel. Come let us make a name for ourselves lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth. Genesis In there were known Christians from Muslim background in Iran. Today conservatively . Future The elect gathered from every people. The true church white hot with martyr zeal and good deeds. Unbelieving culture untransformed. On any given Sunday God may reorient your whole world. Excellent though capable of great improvements. John Owen on the English translation of the Bible that he preferred. Five pieces of wise and wizened dating advice. Saul was preaching boldly in the name of the Lord. And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists. Acts Preached. Spoke. Disputed. The Lord Jesus has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit. Acts O to be so sent minute video teaching on gospel transformation of the emotions and how God governs disobedience. Justin Taylors Modest Proposal is explosively relevant for grasping what is at stake at Wheaton. The harvest is plentiful. Matthew It really is. He has other sheep. Millions. Everywhere. They will know his voice. Speak it. At Cornelius house God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name. Acts The Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Matthew Read J. I. Packers response to losing much of his sight. If Jesus never sinned or repented why was he baptized May your silver perish with you because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money Acts Slaves obey your masters. Really Peter Look at the Book. Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Matthew Killing sin and entering heaven are not causeeffect but meansend and the means is necssary. How do we humbly handle the offense of the gospel with nonChristians Cultivate the divine companionship. J. I. Packer The new free book from Desiring God Think It Not Strange Navigating the New America. They left the council rejoicing that they were counted worthy to be shamed for the name of Jesus. Acts Name. Shame. Joy The Lord made them joyful and turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them so that he aided them in the work. Ezra Who is Jesus to you The enemy called terrorists kills his dozens in America. The enemy called love of selfpreservation kills millionsforever. If Black Lives Matter matters know why from their own website. See What We Believe and Herstory. Great fear came upon the whole church and all who heard of these things. And more than ever believers were added to the Lord. Acts Fear God not government. Peter . Whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. Matthew Because our fathers angered the God of heaven he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. Ezra RT betweenworlds Okay try this Four ways to kill the sin of habitual suspicion. When the eye of God is on you no one can stop you from doing what God has told you to do. Ezra They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with boldness. Acts Nothing more needed in our day. RT davidcmathis Launching tonight at Desiring God. Tony Reinkes penetrating analysis of what to expect from preaching in our culture. What can Peter possibly mean by Who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good My guess is that when Moses wrote Genesis it was even more unthinkable that a human could live years than it is today. But true. Every family stands for something. God calls husbands to form and follow through on a moral vision. No duty is evangelical or accepted with God unless especial grace is exercised in. John Owen Can a missed field goal work an eternal weight of glory Ask Pastor John at minutes. Jesus is no less with us personally because we are attended by mighty angelic ministering spirits. Hebrews a Children will rise against parents and have them put to death. Matthew . It has been and will be this bad. Here or there. Though he giveth or he takethGod HIs children neer forsakethHis the loving purpose solelyTo preserve them pure an holy. C. S.B. The knowledge of a proud man is the throne of Satan in his mind. John Owen The ideal world ended with Genesis . Thoughts on using fatherlessness statistics redemptively. They made their hearts diamondhard lest they hear the law and the words that the Lord of hosts had sent. Zechariah Soften Lord Not by might nor by power but by my Spirit says the Lord of hosts. Zechariah John Frame It is evident from biblical history that God intends to rule his church through a book. Live as people who are free. That is in your freedom submit to be ruled. What Look at the book. Peter . Then a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the LORD and esteemed his name. Malachi Slain in the Shadow of the Almighty. The triumph of martyrdom years later. For from the rising of the sun to its setting my name will be great among the nations says the LORD of hosts. Malachi Will God call me to a career I dont enjoy My thoughts. For you who fear my name the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. Malachi Episode of Dispatches from the Front is another dangerous DVD if you want to stay put. Godsaturated stories of loss are preparation for Godsaturated loss. Loss is coming. The average borrower in the class of walked the stage in the hole. Alex Chediak has wisdom here. There is no profitable handling of sacred truths on any pretence but with an eye unto the guidance of Christian practice. John Owen The people wander like sheep they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd. Zechariah Four strategies for when life seems aimless. Whoever has this hope in him purifieth himself even as Christ is pure. John The sign of saving hope is holiness. If God makes his sun rise on the evil and the good wont some get the impression that evil is negligible Yes. Now be merciful as he is. I hope Nancy DeMoss Wolgemuth lives to give her th anniversary take on marriage. The week take is rich. God to Job Who has first given to me that I should repay him Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine. Job Be fruitful multiply fill the earth. Genesis . How close are we The most neglected spiritual discipline. As there is natural life and eternal life so there is natural death and the second death the lake of fire. Revelation Big lottery about to drop. And even bigger reasons to drop it out of your life. For good. Kevin DeYoung Across the Race Devide. I was helped. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood and the name by which he is called is The Word of God. Revelation Justice and truth. How does being an exile and sojourner on earth affect your life New Look at the Book on Peter. God to Job Will you even put me in the wrong Will you condemn me that you may be in the right Job Which spiritual disciplines are the most important Job to God Behold I am of small account what shall I answer you I lay my hand on my mouth. I will proceed no further. Job Jesus said to them Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me even so I am sending you. John minute video on being free from money and rich toward God. What does that even mean I struck you with blight and with mildew and with hail yet you did not turn to me declares the Lord. Haggai Will we rage or repent How do I know if Im doing the spiritual disciplines right A proud faith is as much a contradiction as a humble devil. Stephen Charnock I will remove from your midst your proudly exultant ones. But I will leave a people humble and lowly. Zephaniah Bob Kauflin on four ways not to sing about the cross of Christ. Who provides for the raven its prey when its young ones cry to God for help Job It is a gracious thing when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. Peter Mindful of God. His majestic heights seen through a glass surely even if dimly. Thats the goal and the backdrop. I will punish the men who are complacent those who say in their hearts The Lord will not do good nor will he do ill. Zephaniah Folly in pain. They cursed the name of God who had power over these plagues. They did not repent and give him glory. Revelation Professor Bruce Ware has wise counsel for your Bible Reading. We need personal disciplines and congregational disciplines. Only warranted trust glorifies the one trusted. A leap in the dark honors no one. Enter seeing the glory of God in his word. RT betweenworlds Ive tried to pull together a bunch of other plans and helps here for reading the Bible. RT TonyReinke Ultimately joy is meaningless or joy is the meaning of the universe. A new app from Desiring God. Helping you with spur of the moment desires to listen to some Bible exposition. Counsel to sojourners in Expect little good from the world. Give much good to the world. Hope fully in Christ to make all things new. How actually do our good deeds lead others to Christ Look at the Book on Peter . God the Lord is my strength he makes my feet like the deers he makes me tread on my high places. Habakkuk What are spiritual disciplines The earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Habakkuk We would be thrilled if you joined us here at years end in our mission to make millions glad in God forever. Ten resolutions for mental health from one of the healthiest souls Ive ever knownClyde Kilby. Exploit your weaknesses in . And how Ive tried to do this. Woe to him who builds a town with blood. Habakkuk . Or an unencumbered life with the blood of abortion. The only Must Read of . God Write the vision make it plain so he may run who reads it. Habakkuk . Biblical revelation is for running. What are the biggest challenges facing the Evangelical church in The clouds accomplish all that he commands them. Whether for correction or for love he causes it to happen. Job God thunders wondrously with his voice. To the snow he says Fall on the earth. Job Winning the adversary by living in radical hope. Look at the Book on Peter . All nations will come and worship you for your righteous acts have been revealed.Revelation Our theology of marital intimacy is too lame. God is not glorified by the heart that finds him unsatisying. Love loves to love. Micah Corinthians The Lord is good a stronghold in the day of trouble he knows those who take refuge in him. Nahum Are we saved by our belief in God or by our delight in God The Lord covers his hands with lightning and commands it to strike the mark. Job How Godsaturated is your world He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. Revelation Believing Scripture sobers life. Leaves in the yard are full of motion in the wind all day but they are totally aimless. You were not born for this. Those who die in the Lord rest from their labors for their deeds follow them Revelation No good will be forgotten. If you had a drink of water today you should feel thankful to God. Because he made the springs of water. Revelation Either we trust God by affirming all his revealed wisdom or we play God by deciding what he got wrong. Fear God and give him glory because the hour of his judgment has come. Revelation Its not pacifism to urge Christians to be more passionate for mighty prayer than military power. The sun sets on Christmas Day. The light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it. John Congratulations Maya Star Tribs sportsperson of the year. Well done in every way. For this purpose I was born and entered the worldto bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. John I give them to you as gifts from Johm . . The grace of God has appeared bringing salvation for all people. Titus . The key to experiencing Christmas peace in your life today. It might change everything tomorrow if you see how the incarnation was for the sake of your humility. If you want a serious reading for Christmas at home you could download the Innkeeper. Or Ill read it with you. Jesus Jesus how I trust Him How Ive proved him oer and oer Jesus Jesus precious Jesus O for grace to trust Him more. L Stead Leithart Miroslav Volfs critique of Wheaton virtually excludes the possibility of idolatry. What is the purpose of Christmas Glory to God. Peace to man. Dont miss the connection. It is not wise to be radically devoted to some of Gods wisdom and dismissive of the rest. The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might they shall turn in dread to the Lord our God. Micah Do Jews need faith in Jesus on order to be saved Pope says no. Bible says yes. Olasky a Jewish Christian responds. The Lord delivers the afflicted by their affliction and opens their ear by adversity. Job Santa Claus Harmless fun or Christmas diversion In anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey. Micah This too is our great God. Parkinsons notwithstanding Wayne Grudem says Romans is still in the Bible. I love this man. The lame I will make the remnant and those who were cast off a strong nation. Micah Why I disagree with Jerry Falwell Jr. about encouraging Christians to arm themselves with guns. Lets spend minutes together soaking our minds in the prideshattering implications of Christmas. Twas the eternity before Christmas and all through the vastness. . . They have conquered by the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony for they loved not their lives even unto death. Rev. Truth or fiction Did Herod really slaughter baby boys in Bethlehem The dragon became furious and made war on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. Revelation Jesus Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. John Of the truth bears much reflection. These minutes of video teaching on rendering to Caesar are pretty relevant just now. years ago today a sacred covenant was made till death parts us. My fellow heir of everything. Should missionaries fundraise Jesus interpreting Christmas For this purpose I have come into the worldto bear witness to the truth. John T Joy.U Joy.L Joy.I Joy.P Joy. Jesus My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world my servants would have been fighting. John All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Timothy It is not freedom for a fish to sun itself on the beach. It is death. The question of freedom is What were you made for How far beyond the fence can I get before they start shooting How Americans do business. Or not. These two prophets were a torment to those who dwell on the earth. Revelation Careful how you measure faithfulness. Three diagnostic questions about who you are this Christmas. Yoda or Grinch. Loss is no shame. Jasmine Holmes on miscarriages and announcements. Jesus to the Father I do not ask that you take them out of the world but that you keep them from the evil one. John Be person in whose presence it is not safe to slander others. When a pastor approaches death he discovers whether his primary joy has been preaching Christ or meeting Christ. minute video teaching on how we are born again. From Vancouver Look at the Book weekend. To fulfil a prophecy is not to exhaust its capability of being again and again fulfilled. Henry Alford . . . always learning and never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. . . Timothy Lovers of quest over treasure. Come have coffee with Rosaria Butterfield and Phillip Holmes. They are talking about homosexuality. Does the message of the cross confirm our innate value . . . having the form of godliness but denying its power. . . Timothy People will be lovers of self. Tim. . Not thoughtful pursuers of eternal happiness. But a sense of selfadmiration and entitlement. Glory full of grace and truth. Lets go deeper into one of the greatest Christmas verses in the Bible. John . God is greater than man. Job . Every man. All men. Everywhere. Beginning to end. Forever. Is food starting to take Gods place in my life Four warning signs. Not age or youth but the Spirit of God in man makes him wise. Job The Lamb will guide them to springs of living water and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Revelation O to be able to say at the end I glorified you on earth having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. John Im done with the organized church but I still love Jesus my response. This is eternal life that they know you the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. John Be earnest to present yourself proven to God. Timothy Leave a Godcentered Christexalting urban legacy. You either bear the everlasting dignity of acting Gods sovereign will willingly or the everlasting shame of acting his will unwillingly. Four truths about Gods provision. Unexpected. Himself. Already. Forever. Would you come soarI mean praywith me for four minutes Youll see why. Does God hate Satan And should we To the martyrs Rest until the number of your brothers is complete who are to be killed as you yourselves have been. Revelation To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever Revelation Jesus When the Spirit of truth comes he will glorify me. John . The great work of the Holy Spirit. Donald Macleod opens the sweetness of our adoption. I savored this with pleasure tonight. Among the mysteries in theology for which I do not have an adequate answer this is one of them. The aim of a Christian soldier is to please the one who enlisted him. Timothy Say to Jesus My aim is to please you. The Bethlehem Pastors Conference theme becomes more timely every day. Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. Timothy The only suffering that is strange for a Christian is for sin. The Christians future. You will be sorrowful but your sorrow will turn into joy. And no one will take your joy from you. John Proud of Or proud because of Your kids. Helpful distinction by Barnabas. The former. If you are a saint then Christ is sweet and refreshing to you as the water of a river to a man when he is very thirsty. Jonathan Edwards About . million people will die during advent worldwide half a million of them children. Joy How Onesiphorus was not ashamed of my chains but sought me in Rome and found me. Timothy Like Jesus. Heb. . Like God. Heb. We need no other arguments to prove that God made the world but itself. John Owen The happiness that Christ gives is worth more than all the silver and gold in the world. Jonathan Edwards A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me they will also persecute you. John Trip Lee in a minute video on why you cant do without the local church. I love women courageous enough to keep their clothes on. You are poor and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold. Revelation Only from Christ can we buy gold when broke. If I read my Bible and I feel nothing what should I do next Share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God. Timothy I love Desiring Gods freedom from ads and registration and demands for your data. But we do simply ask our friends. From indie kid to idol smasher. Her own. A freedom story. All the good things that Christ bestows on his saints come to em as freely as water runs down in a river. Jonathan Edwards Your old passions war against you. Look at the Book on Peter . If you are not firm in faith you will not be firm at all. Isaiah Do I own my art Intellectual property rights and gospel generosity. Take heart lovers of the formerly believing. The sovereign Lord says I will heal their apostasy. Hosea How the angels model Christian Hedonism. At Christmas. Questions to ask in deciding what traditions to keep for Christmas. Say no more Our God to the work of your hands. Hosea If Only I Knew Why. What if God gives himself instead of the answer And God said to man Behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdom and to turn away from evil is understanding. Job RT CTmagazine American church planters opened new Protestant churches last year You have a lawyer in heavens court pleading your case. God understands the way to wisdom. For he looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens. Job The price of wisdom is above pearls. The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it nor can it be valued in pure gold. Job Why you exist in the world. Peters answer. That is Gods answer. Look at the Book. Only Jesus can talk of friendship this way. If he is love thus he must. You are my friends if you do what I command you. John Woe to you when all men speak well of you. minute video on Jesus demand to love our enemy. What does it mean to live in Gods presence A twosided metaphor. The revelation of God in nature infallibly shows the truth of God it was designed to reveal. Hence Paul says only depravity fails to see it. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Revelation He is speaking in the New Testament. Is God calling me to the mission field Seven factors to consider The pride of Israel testifies to his face yet they do not return to the Lord their God nor seek him for all this. Hosea What Child Is This is not a superfluous question. Going behind the best Carols. Behold these are but the outskirts of his ways and how small a whisper do we hear of him Job I know your tribulation and your poverty but you are rich. Revelation RT MattSmethurst Rachel speaking at Garretts memorial service. Moving Godexalting four minutes. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. Revelation I do as the Father has commanded me so that the world may know that I love the Father. John Come let us return to the Lord for he has torn us that he may heal us. Hosea Just heard that the BethlehemDG Conference for pastors is well ahead of last years registration. Join us. Spurgeon never suffered from having never suffered. Hence his great usefulness when speaking of joy. Fourway consensual adultery is fourway consensual sin. There is a fifth party who does not consent. minute video teaching on the infinite price of your freedom from Vancouver Look at the Book. I died and behold I am alive forevermore and I have the keys of Death and Hades. Jesus Revelation Godliness is a means of great gainthat is godliness with contentment. Timothy Hello online public unrelational cirtic. Would you join me for dinner When we get more pleasure out of receiving than giving we are kept from the deeper pleasure we were made to enjoy. Massive and merciful. The mighty God cares for his own. Peter The Pleasure of Praising Others. From the man who wrote the book on Godcentered praise of those who are not God. The Lord says I will abolish the bow the sword and war from the land and I will make you lie down in safety. Hosea The Godcentered way God treasures you. Look at the Book on Peter . Repentance produces grief and joy. If you dare here are four steps to happiness in choosing holiness. I have treasured the words of Gods mouth more than my portion of food. Job Fist bump with a holy fist bump. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Revelation Jesus I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Jogn If your spouse acts worthily your love is the easier. If your spouse acts unworthily your love is the more glorious. Every millisecond of pain in your life in the path of obedience is producing something for you. Let me explain. It is dark. Let every advent night say Those who sat in darkness have seen a great Light. Isaiah . Have you A Great Light. Starting today there will be a daily Advent reading at the Solid Joys App. Heres the link to get it. I love the visual way this little video explains what Desiring God is. Ponder his names Wonderful Counselor Mighty God Everlasting Father Prince of Peace. Each is worth a lifetime of meditation. Five truths about eternal security. Look at the Book on James . Come with me. Lets plunge our minds into the ocean of Gods sovereignty. It really does make a difference in the depth of our treasuring of Christ if we pause daily in Advent and ponder his coming. His last sermon. The policeman killed in Colorado. He was also a pastor. Does God direct our lives through our anxieties My answer. There are two ways to be a second hander. One is to live for mans approval. The other is to need conservative or liberal disapproval. The sufferings of Christ are a calling for every Christian. Peter . A calling. Your calling. Tony Reinkes annual best books of the year. Why many leave the faith. They feel sensuous impulses that alienate them from Christ. Timothy When am I ready to become a Christian My answer This evening before the work week begins pause and memorize a promise for the week. Ask God to lead you to it. Then hold it. Begin now praying about how God wants you to read your Bible next year. Being ready to launch January is a thrilling thing. Today is the first Sunday of Advent. Lets do this. Slow steady resolute peaceful. When am I ready to become a Christian My answer If you are studying Greek or Hebrew. Dont give up. Dont give up. It is worth it. God and his word are worth it. The one who lives luxuriously is dead while living. Timothy Whoever does evil has not seen God. John . To see him for who he is to become like him. Partly now. Fully later. John Missions is worth the mess. Amen. And the misery. But to this day the Lord has not given you a heart to understand or eyes to see or ears to hear. Deuteronomy Our agenda for prayer. Seven popular assumption of the culture. Checked. I appeal to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. Jude Corrected link on Thabiti Anyabwiles good article on how to think and act about police injustices. Thabiti Anyabwile on how pastors and the rest of us should think and act about police brutality. He delivers and rescues he works signs and wonders. Daniel When Nebuchadnezzer dealt proudly he was brought down from his throne and his glory was taken from him. Daniel The old fairy tale ending happily ever after is not a fairy tale. Thank you Father for the words of life. There is not Book like your Book. Thank you. They have gone out for the sake of the name accepting nothing from the Gentiles. John Bringing Back the Wandering Believer. And covering a multitude of sins. Look at the Book James I lifted my eyes to heaven and my reason returned. Daniel For that is where reason comes from. Looking there is where it starts. Justice is moving forward in Chicago and we pray it will come to Minneapolis as well. Christian joy and the joy of feasting. The Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. Daniel. I see four men walking in the midst of the fire and they are not hurt the appearance of the fourth is like a son of God. Daniel Nebuchadnezzer Whoever does not fall down and worship my idol shall be cast into a fiery furnace. Daniel Here we die. The two sworn enemies of our joy. After my skin has been destroyed yet in my flesh I shall see God. Job Or apart from my flesh. Either way spectacular hope. I know that my Redeemer lives and at the last he will stand upon the earth. Job Were they destined to disobey God Peters answer in Look at the Book on Peter . Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. John Feels like progress. Its not. Francis Chan on the most important thing you can do today. If God is essentially happy why does he seem so badtempered in Scripture The Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. John RT TGC Join BenjaminSWatson on November for a gospelcentered conversation about race. minute video explanation of the book I waited years to write. This Momentary Marriage. They loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. John Do a serious heart check. minute video on Jesus command that we love him and the Father. How are those loves related Is happiness different from joy While you have the light believe in the light that you may become sons of light. John . Believe to become. Lets build substance into our Christmas season. . minute video intro to Good News of Great Joy. This is the love of God that we keep his commandments and his commandments are not burdensome. John Glad obedience love of God. Whoever has the Son has life whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. John For he is resurrection and life. New Passions are the Path to Holiness. minute video from Vancouver weekend. Thanksgiving starts on Sunday. Actually reaches a corporate crescendo. Good tuning for Thursday. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. John There is whole world of sovereign grace in has been. In this the love of God was made manifest that God sent his only Son into the world so that we might live through him. John An invitation to ISIS and Israel. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God God abides in him and he in God. John . Scripture is from God. Whoever knows God listens to it whoever is not from God does not listen to it. John If you want to see how John understands propitiation for the sins of the whole world in John see the similar wording in John . To the King of ages. . . How many ages Ages of ages. Be glory and honor through them all Timothy Jesus has so much to say to the Syrian refugee crisis. D.G. living next door to Syria helps us see. Five biblical reasons why you should think deeply about God. Man who is born of a woman is few of days and full of trouble. Job Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. John Come to the man rejected by men. New Look at the Book on Peter . To reveal God to men and to direct men to come to the enjoyment of God. These are the only two great concerns of our nature. John Owen This is my heart for the Refugee Crisis as it relates to America. David Crabb says it so well. When should nonquitters quit My answer. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. John Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me though he die yet shall he live. John By this we know love that he laid down his life for us and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. John Dont Follow Your Heart. Thats the new free eBook from Desiring God by Jon Bloom. I thrilled to point you to it. Even in your setbacks God is lacing the plot of your life into an infinite storyline. A Remedy for Envy. Look at the Book video on Peter . I have spoken in my jealous wrath because you suffered the reproach of the nations. Ezekiel Suffering saints will be vindicated. I will do more good to you than ever before. And you will know that I am the LORD. Ezekiel . We will know him by extreme goodness. RT ahc We refuse to let the gods of fear or security dictate how we should respond. markgalli for CTmagazine A new film that keeps us from looking the other way when evil is so PC it cant be indicted. Until... Four key ways we enjoy God in our work. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God. John Jesus loved Martha Mary and Lazarus. SO when he heard Lazarus was ill he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. John God counsel from a seasoned small group leader. Six Questions to Ask When Studying the Bible in a Group. The ship belongs in the water of the world but if the water gets in the ship it sinks. D. L. Moody ways to fight sin in your own life. From the new edition of A Godward Life. Articulating the glorious cross to an atonementrejecting culture. It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy because you being a man make yourself God. John You cant make new old friends.Greg Livingstone. Either you did or you didnt. Young people think about this. Now. You are meant to move mountains. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me. John Faith more precious than gold. minute video teaching on Peter . Look at the Book Vancouver. No men can be lords of our faith though they may be helpers of our joy. John Owen Encouraging your pastor without exalting him. Praise his godliness more than his giftedness. Church leaders We would love to see you at the Bethlehem Conference for Pastor January . No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father. John Come Muslims Come Israel To the Son France. A Fabric Torn. No one takes my life from me. I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down I have authority to take it up. John I lay down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also. John . Pursue the purchased His Kingdom cannot failHe rules oer earth and heavenThe keys of death and hell are to our Jesus given. Charles. Wesley Thus says that he Lord Behold I am against you. Ezekiel . God will say this finally to many. Are you sure you are not among them Am I righteous enough to enjoy the promises in the Psalms Highsoaring sunsoaked fruitladen branches are owing to deepreaching rocksplitting truthfed roots. I doubt that you will watch anything better than this on the issue of transgender for a long time. The Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you from evil. Thessalonians According to Peter growing through the word is not optional. We grow up into salvation. Look at the Book. They shall know that I am the Lord when I execute judgments in her and manifest my holiness in her. Ezekiel The mindblowing grace of God. Do I delight in God or in others being impressed by my discovery about God What is man that you visit him every morning and test him every moment Job Every moment a test from God Life matters. You cant obey the commands of God without God. minute video on You must be born again. Behold all souls are mine the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine the soul who sins shall die. Ezekiel I bring low the high tree and make high the low tree dry up the green tree and make the dry tree flourish. I am the Lord. Ezekiel What does it mean to receive Jesus into my life The speech of a despairing man is wind Job Dont put it in your journal. Or brood over it. Or bring it up for reproof. He who withholds kindness from a friend forsakes the fear of the Almighty. Job Cowering does not yield kindness. Peaceful fear does. A serious call to Christian exiles from the apostle Peter. God will never forsake you. So you dont need to crave money. Look at the Book on Hebrews . Winsome Weirdos. My latest effort to help us navigate the new America. That has always been. HT Apostle Peter. Nine forceful warnings to confront your friends adultery. The only person I would trust with governmental powers to enforce complete Christian behavior is Jesus. And he will. When he comes. No biblical writer has a view of eternal security that makes it superfluous to warn professing Christians they can make shipwreck of faith. Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. John . So hear Hear Hear Fewer than of Christians in France are active. of France is Muslim. There are more active Muslims in France than active Christians. Six ways parents of rebellious children fight for faith When I passed by and saw you wallowing in your blood I said to you in your blood Live Ezekiel . The origin of every Christian. They promise freedom but are themselves slaves of corruption. Peter . how many are swept away in false freedom He who sent me is true and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. Jesus. John. Listen to him to God. Connecting Christian Hedonism with how we know the Bible is true. A new message. Tom Schreiner answers Perry Noble. On Complementarian implications. He who called you is faithful. He will act. Thessalonians . Implicit in the call is Gods pledge to act and finish what he began. Woe to pastors who pick and choose among the truths of a scripture thinking this one I wil believe but not this one. Isolation feeding on vanity soulstarving loneliness.Isolation communion with God soulfeeding solitude. Jesus really did believe that reasons given with words have the power to change negative emotions. He gave nine in Matthew . There is always good reason to weep. And always good reason to rejoice. Not sequential. Simultaneous. The Bible contains over verses so much gold and so little time. A speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained the prophets madness. Peter . Whatever it takes. Send the donkeys. Your imagination was bought with the blood of Christ. So make it serve the Savior. I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness but will have the light of life. John If your child was born without eyes you dont laugh when aborted eyes drop in the abortionists lap. Gun to my head will I deny Jesus Christ No one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. John . Evil moves when God approves. With good memories of learning the deep things of Logos software heres another testimony from one of our teachers. Get a flavor of Douglas Sweeneys new book on Edwards the Exegete. O that we could see what Edwards saw. I will speak the word and perform it declares the Lord God. Ezekiel God does not predict. He declares and performs. We cannot live without hope. A new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh. Ezekiel Three Ways to Love Your Imperfect Husband and it works the other way around. Is tardiness and punctuality a Christian witness issue My answer Pass through the city and put a saving mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over the abominations in it. Ezekiel The Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment. Peter The more hostile the world becomes the more hospitable Christians should be. Peter Hebrews Matthew Romans Hope in eternal purity. Aim at daily purity. My good name I can leave to the Father. My brothers good name has been entrusted to me. Andrew Murray Good counsel for students who feel they are hooked on porn. Fourminute video. Whoever believes in me as the Scripture has said Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. John How God purifies the soul from sin. Look at the Book Peter . Why does the apostle Peter say that the world will ask about our hope Not our faith or love. If you reject the Bible as your final authority what is your final authority Get that clear. For God will ask you in the end. Can my life be plagued by generational sins hexes or curses My answer Better to lose your life than to waste it. Mark . It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the LORD. Lamentations Jesus answered If you knew me you would know my Father also. John I called on your name O LORD from the depths of the pit you heard my plea . . . you have redeemed my life. Lamentations How do I praise others but avoid flattery My answer. My eyes flow with rivers of tears because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. Lamentations You are Godtaught to love each other. Thessalonians The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true. John Laura Story on the healing power of the painful storyyour story. If anyones will is to do Gods will he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I speak on my own authority. John Together for the Gospel early bird registration and deep savings ends tonight. Hope to see many of you. In the class for Christians called How to Walk and Please God it is possible to do well and to do better. Thessalonians Its Reformation Day. And Jesus is knocking. Hammering on the Wittenberg door. Simon Peter answered him Lord to whom shall we go You have the words of eternal life. John Do not be moved by these afflictions. For you know that we are destined for this. Thessalonians God Frankensteins and More The Opportunity for Generosity on Halloween Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph How does he now say I have come down from heaven John Early bird registration ends Oct. . Hope to see you in Louisville next April. If God wills we will live and . . . Help for Halloween from David Mathis. Still time to pray and plan. Our money becomes the objective extension of our joy in God to others. Corinthians Parents take your kids to heaven with you. Perfection is not the path. No creed but the Bible Christians invented the university. God invented teaching. Ideas from Rick Segal VP Bethlehem College and Seminary. Jesus Christ supremely precious as the beginning and the end. Look at the Book on Peter . The Lord has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes because his aim is to destroy Babylon. Jeremiah Does prayer seem like a diversion from productivity Desiring God is now on Instagram To ISIS The horror you inspire has deceived you and the pride of your heart. I will bring you down declares the Lord. Jeremiah The major obstacle in forgiving others. RT MattSmethurst Dont forget. Dont ignore. Dont grow numb.PlannedParenthoodDefundPP You were found and caught because you opposed the Lord. Jeremiah The rolling thudding mossless stone is dead. The moss is silent because the moss is alive. Be still and know. If youre trying to show someone the basis and beauty of the doctrine of election I wrote this to try to help. A life of ease is just around the corner called death. You dont need to jump that gun. There is work to do. We were bold in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in much conflict. Thessalonians Bold in our God Would you settle for one million dollars If you believed Moses you would believe me for he wrote of me. John What does it mean to fear God as a Christian Look at the Book Peter DoyouhavequestionsaboutthefutureofIMBSBCJoinPresidentplattdavidforIMBLiveStream today at pm ET Do you soar when Gods word says you are chosen If not come consider these ten reasons. The question relevant in every culture on the planet is Who will deliver you from the wrath to come Thessalonians The reason we crave and abuse power is because we do not delight in the glory of Gods right to all power. Why do nonChristian novelists know the human condition so well Jesus was even calling God his own Father making himself equal with God. John The reason they can stand with Planned Parenthood is that their mothers did not cut their tiny legs off. Who can heal the pain of being left alone My friends may help me. They cannot heal me. Only Jesus. You shall have your life as a prize of war because you have put your trust in me declares the Lord. Jeremiah Really glad that John Frame was willing to be a part of the Ask Pastor John podcast. The end of the matter all has been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments for this is the whole duty of man. Ecclesiastes Knowledge exists because God exists. Alive to Wonder. A free Ebook. Or Print. The lifewakening effect of C. S. Lewis. The Preacher taught the people knowledge weighing studying and arranging many proverbs with great care. Ecclesiastes RT MarkDever Pray for Germany Lieber Gott giesse deinen heiligen Geist auf die Kirche im Deutchland aus. Jesus found the man he had healed and said You are well Sin no more that nothing worse may happen to you. John RT MarkDever Pray for Germany The biblical pattern salvation pardon and power forgiven and reformed bought and bathed. The king commanded Jerahmeel them to seize Baruch the secretary and Jeremiah the prophet but the Lord hid them. Jeremiah Happy are you O land when your princes feast for strength and not for drunkenness Ecclesiastes The Bible is a bottomless reservoir of wisdom for helping liberate people from addictions. O how I long for all believers to to know that and why their faith will not fail utterly. If the heavens above can be measured then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done. Jeremiah I will feast the soul of the priests with abundance and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness declares the Lord. Jeremiah You will not know the truth or the power of the Instructors promises unless you jump. I have loved you with an everlasting love therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. Jeremiah Chase the world by raising kids who change the world. Of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure and I will by no means leave you unpunished. Jeremiah Does God take delight in destroying sinners My answer. Ian and Larissa. Beautiful as ever. Read Phillip Holmes tribute. The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools. Ecclesiastes By Future Grace I mean the next five minutes of help and the next five centuries. New LAB on Cor. reasons to memorize an entire book of the Bible. Because their willingness to have nails in their hands might make me willing to get egg on my face. We need to read the Christian Aid report of the crucifixions and beheadings of our brothers and sisters. O Lord you are my refuge in the day of disaster. Jeremiah I really would like to help you know what the will of God istheoretically and personally. Heres the video. When Jeremiah finished speaking all the Lord had commanded him the people laid hold of him saying You shall die Jer. Everything about God is about everything. And His praise remains if I go downstairs and look in the other direction. The colorful Creator of all things deserves public praise for what hes doing outside my study right now. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water. John A spring. With new lifegiving drinks each day. The white bread of sin is no temptation after a Thanksgiving feast of holy joy. Get hungry for this. This is how you know and believe God. I will give them a heart to know that I am the Lord. Jeremiah Pause and thank. Three articulate minutes with Conrad Mbewe on why we never outgrow our need for the gospel. Video. RT TonyReinke The best Christian books of nonfiction. By a discerning man. Can a man hide himself so that I cannot see him declares the Lord. Do I not fill heaven and earth Jeremiah When spiritual darkness descends do the next thing. The single you will be the married you. I will raise up for David a righteous Branch. The name by which he will be called The Lord is our righteousness. Jeremiah What is this Double talk I worked hard. It was not I but grace. Look at the Book on Cor. . Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture Jeremiah A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. John How should Christians think about socialism My answer Practice the shift. What to do when anxiety grips you. Then Pashhur beat Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks that were in the upper Benjamin Gate. Jeremiah What would you say to an yearold who asked If God promised to take care of us why are we hungry He who observes the wind will not sow and he who regards the clouds will not reap. Ecclesiastes All effort is risk. In the day of prosperity be joyful and in the day of adversity consider God has made the one and the other. Eccl. Video from Vancouver Look at the Book on our living hope. God takes pleasure in your hope in him. Be not quick in your spirit to become angry for anger lodges in the heart of fools. Ecclesiastes Is the Syrian refugee crisis an endtimes event If the Lord wills we will live and do this or that. James . Enveloped in sovereign care. Immortal till Im done. The God of perfect patience is continually ready to start fresh with you. Totally fresh. Christ died for this. These animations moved me deeply. Especially . The supremacy of Jesus Christ. At RT drmoore Maranatha. O Lord the hope of Israel all who forsake you shall be put to shame. Jeremiah The fierce anger of the Lord will accomplish the intentions of his mind. In the latter days you will understand this. Jeremiah Hezekiah obeyed the Lord Kings . His son and grandson did evil. His great grandson Josiah did right . Joseph is still alive and he is ruler over all Egypt. Genesis Jesus is alive and he is ruler over all. Period. He who departs from evil makes himself a prey. Isaiah Bakers. Photographers. County clerks. You They went after worthlessness and became worthless. Jeremiah . Pursue One who is infinitely worthy and become worthy. The gods who did not make the heavens and the earth shall perish from the earth and from under the heavens. Jeremiah 