Maxamoomoo Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please note we have replied to your DM. Thank you. stephvarty same time so this will sold out before you can pay for it. We apologise for the inconvenience caused. stephvarty Hello Stephanie thank you for contacting us. Please note that many people might be trying to buy the same item at the lesley Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us your order number so we may better assist you. Thanks. jaelenrice Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks nomusax Our Bullring store opens Monday to Friday at . Saturday at . and sunday at . Thank you. nomusax Hello please be advised that you may check our store opening times via our App. johnrdugdale further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. johnrdugdale Hi John we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Please DM us BethEvsTV We hope your next experience with us will be a positive one. Thank you. BethEvsTV feedback to the relevant department who will review this so that any necessary improvements may be implemented. BethEvsTV Hello Bethan we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your bailyfaik Hello we can confirm that we have replied to you via DM. Thank you. beckybales so that we may assist you further. Thank you. beckybales Hi Rebecca were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more details KyraAudleyCharl We kindly suggest you subscribe to your our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. KyraAudleyCharl Hi please be advised that we do not have an actual date for the end of sales as it may vary depending on our stock. loveandpride ylna Bonjour nous sommes dsols pour cette erreur humaine dtiquetage. Le prix correct de larticle sold est de EUR. Merci. ruksarhussain You may find this information in our Buying Guide Thanks. ruksarhussain Hi please be advised that items purchased online can be exchanged for a different size or colour. RachOConnor you are using so that we may assist you further. Thank you. RachOConnor Hello Rachel we are sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us with the device and browser silviacarreral nuestra web a partir del domingo ya que es posible que se repongan algunos artculos rebajados. Gracias. silviacarreral Hola aunque no podemos asegurar que se vaya a reponer nuestro short ref. te recomendamos que visites OJTeush Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans un magasin Zara afin que notre personnel puisse vous aider. Bonne journe. OJTeush Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne. Nos articles sont en effet soumis des contrles de qualit. EstherRaphael relevant department so that this may be looked into internally with the concerned branch. Thank you. EstherRaphael We thank you for bringing this to our attention and can confirm that we have forwarded this to the EstherRaphael Hi please accept our apologies for this as our customers instore experience is important to us. claramorrondo La disponibilidad se garantiza al finalizar el proceso de compra. Gracias por tu comprensin. claramorrondo Hola Clara te informamos de que la visualizacin de los artculos en la cesta de la compra no asegura su reserva. JaimeeHulsmeyer receive an alert with your tracking information. We hope you find this information useful. Thank you. JaimeeHulsmeyer our warehouse within the time frame selected at the moment of the purchase. Please note once it has shipped you will JaimeeHulsmeyer Hi Jaimee thanks for your message. Regarding your query please note your order is currently being prepared in DidjaH Bonsoir merci de nous fournir la rfrence du produit ou une photo afin que nous puissions vous renseigner. Merci. Sandrabes Hola por favor envanos un MD a ZARA Care con ms datos como la ubicacin de la tienda y la fecha para revisarlo. Gracias. Gabriel donde nuestro personal valorar el mono y te aconsejar adecuadamente. Gracias. Gabriel antes de su distribucin. En este caso te aconsejamos que acudas a tu tienda ZARA ms cercana Gabriel Hola Gabriella sentimos lo que nos cuentas ya que todos nuestros productos pasan por estrictos controles de calidad Blancacb Hola por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con ms detalles sobre lo sucedido para poder ayudarte. Gracias. KingNdiaye Hi please forward your query via DM to our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. cooperjosiahdd Hi Danielle please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. doseofE Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us your order number so we may properly advise you. Thank you. eelanit Hi Christina thanks for contacting ZARA. To better assist kindly DM us your order number so we may verify on our end. Thanks. MaxineNikita the country form which you are contacting us so we may further assist. Thanks. MaxineNikita Hello we are sorry this is your perception. Please send us a DM with more details to ZARA Care confirming also dc contacting us from for further assistance. Thanks. dc Hi we are sorry this is your perception. Please DM us more details to ZARA Care confirming the country you are leslikari Por favor envenos un mensaje con ms detalles de lo sucedido para asistirle. Gracias. leslikari Hola Lesli. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Aljandrok Hola Alejandro. Por favor envenos un mensaje con ms detalles de lo sucedido para asistirle. Gracias. JBinxters We kindly request that you DM our Customer Care account Thank you. JBinxters Hi Tia thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we have not received a DM. kurtbardella Hi Kurt we apologize for this. Please send a DM to ZaraCare with further details. We await your reply. Thanks. louisatrinh Hello Louisa please DM us more details regarding your query ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. fdg we kindly ask you to DM us a picture or its reference number ZARACare. We will be glad to help. Thank you. fdg Hi Fred thanks for your interest in our products. If you would like to know the future online availability of an item bikebuiltfortwo Hi Tracey we have replied to your DM via our ZARACare account. Thanks. TashiePrincess to a store or online purchase. If online then please DM us your order number. Thank you. CeAndriaJones Hi no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. bailyfaik Hello we can confirm that you will be contacted today. We thank you for your patience. sabidebrignac Hi Sabina please DM us a screen shot of the error message you are receiving via Zaracare so we may assist you. Thanks. KingNdiaye so we can assist you with your request. Thanks. KingNdiaye Hi Moussa as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details. Please DM us your order number kendragigglez Hi Kenny please DM us via Zaracare with further details of your query so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. dawnybeary Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further with your query. Thank you. SarahLushStuff as this helps us to improve. Thanks. SarahLushStuff but do not rule this out in the future. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the pertaining area SarahLushStuff Hi we would like to inform you that we currently do not have any plans to open a store in this area hevsellio Hello Heather we can confirm that we have replied to your DM. Thank you. StaceyEJohns Hello Stacey we can confirm that we have replied to your DM. Thank you. uchiwa Merci de votre rponse. Nous nous excusons pour cette erreur dtiquetage que nous allons faire modifier. Merci. tashabradley so that we may assist you further. Thank you. tashabradley Hi Tasha thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number baphilipp what happened and if we can help to solve any bad experience. Thank you baphilipp Hi please send us your contact details by DM as we would like to know uchiwa Indiqueznous sil vous plat dans quel magasin vous avez vu cette tiquette afin que nous puissions le modifier. Merci. uchiwa Bonjour le prix correct de larticle est de EUR comme vous pouvez le voir sur notre site nikhilraja Hi Nikhil thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. KristinaMarsha to let us know how we can assist further.Thank you. KristinaMarsha and also provided alternative contact details for your best availability.Please send us a DM or chat through our website KristinaMarsha Hi Kristina. We are truly sorry that you feel this way.Please note we have repeatedly tried to contact you at no success maryamumar so that we may assist you further. Thank you. maryamumar Hi Maryam we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number LeighAnneee so that we may assist you further. Thank you. LeighAnneee Hi LeighAnne we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number StaceyEJohns certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. StaceyEJohns Hi Stacey we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most kaitlinwoodsy We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. kaitlinwoodsy Hi Kaitlin we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. bailyfaik Hi Baily please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. FallaitPas en nous indiquant notamment la rfrence de larticle et le magasin en question afin que nous puissions vous aider. Merci. FallaitPas Bonjour nous regrettons la gne occasionne. Merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care lolacolchero para todos los clientes. Muchas gracias. lolacolchero Hola Lola nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente es ZARA Care donde la opcin de mensaje privado est habilitada ellagonzalez Hi please send us a DM to ZARA Care with the order number so we can adequately assist with your query. Thank you. LizSkill Hello please accept our apologies for this as our customers instore experience is important to us. MuazzamDgn Hi please kindly DM us to ZARA Care with the order number. We would like to review your case with the area in charge. Thanks. lisamcatear We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. lisamcatear Hi Lisa we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. AmbarHamid so that we may assist you further. Thank you. AmbarHamid Hi Ambar we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We kindly request that you DM us your order number mirirub Hola por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care con la referencia del vestido para que podamos revisarlo. Gracias. JosephineTachon en nous indiquant le magasin dans lequel vous avez vu cet article Merci. JosephineTachon Bonjour Josie nous regrettons cette erreur dtiquetage. Pourriez vous nous envoyer un MD notre compte ZARA Care GarethSmith Hi Gaz thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you samturps to our Zara Care account Thank you. samturps to improve our services. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. For future queries please refer samturps Hi Sam we apologise for this. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the pertaining area as this helps Hiqbal Hi Hana we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. NemsNr Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To better assist kindly DM more details about your inquiry. Thanks. CityNewsAmanda we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. CityNewsAmanda Hi Amanda we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details via our customer support account Zaracare so LordLark Hi please DM us your order number ZARACare. We will be glad to assist you. Thanks. sassafrasash Hi Ashley please DM your order number or email address ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. lolacolchero Buenas tardes Lola envanos por favor ms detalles por MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para poder ayudarte. Gracias. vieanonyme en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias vieanonyme con la opcin Filtro gt Talla para ver los modelos disponibles en dicha talla. Para futuras consultas te esperamos vieanonyme Hola sin duda trasladaremos tus comentarios al rea responsable para su consideracin. Te invitamos a consultar la web iheartdilla Hi Jessica we are sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us your order number so we may properly assist you. Thanks. samturps so that we may assist you. Thank you. samturps Hi Sam we are sorry to hear of you disappointment. We kindly request that you DM us further details regarding your query JhnTr Nous restons votre disposition depuis le compte de notre service client ZARA Care. Merci. JhnTr Bonjour nous regrettons cette erreur humaine dtiquetage. Le prix correct de larticle est de . EUR. wheway Hi Ella thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account. Thank you. MsRachelJames We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. MsRachelJames Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. seren We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. seren Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. wheway We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. wheway Hi Ella we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. HassanYousaf this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. HassanYousaf Hi Hassan we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly forward jaypateleyes feedback to the relevant department so that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. jaypateleyes Hello we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your CGBiotech checking our website as it is regularly updated. We remain at your disposal at our ZARA Care account. Thanks. CGBiotech Hi please note that some sales items experience a great demand and they may run out of stock quickly. We recommend fictionalbubble For future queries please feel free to contact our customer service account ZARACare. Thanks fictionalbubble Hi thanks for contacting us. We inform you that item ref is sold out and has no expected replenishment. Thank you mairwent Hi were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more details so that we may assist you further. Thanks. nicoledelooze so that we may assist you further. Thank you. nicoledelooze Hi thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number SexKittenRozzi Hi Rossi thanks for your reply. Please DM us via ZaraCare with your query so we may further assist you. Thank you. Summerin Hi Xuyan we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number to provide further assistance. Thanks. KingNdiaye Hi Moussa we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number to provide further assistance. Thanks. izarobyn For your own security we recommend you remove any information including private details. Thank you. izarobyn please contact us through our customer service account ZaraCare. izarobyn Hi we would like to inform you thataccording to our system your order has been delivered correctly. If this is not the case fifthandbloor Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details of your query to be able to assist. Thank you. clairegeldart Hi thank you for your message. Please DM us the order number shown on the label attached to the package for review. Thanks. nicolajohnson replenishment. We suggest you continue to check our web regularly for any updates. Thank you. nicolajohnson Hello Nicola since this item is on Sale we are sorry to inform you that we do not have information about its future bailyfaik Hi were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more details so that we may assist you further. Thanks. roshvarosha We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. roshvarosha Hi we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. angelavargas sus datos de contacto nmero de telfono y direccin de correo electrnico. Muchas gracias. angelavargas Hola Angela por favor envenos un mensaje privado a ZARA Care en Twitter con ms informacin. Confirme tambin paumeeaparis Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans lun de nos magasins afin de consulter sa disponibilit sur place. Bonne journe. paumeeaparis Bonjour le Bermuda Mickey est puis et sagissant dun produit sold il ne devrait plus tre disponible. Juliaflaherty confirming also the country of purchase. Thank you. Juliaflaherty Hi Julia we are sorry this is your perception. Please send us a DM via ZARA Care on Twitter with further details GQHOOPS Hi we are sorry about that. Please send us a DM to ZARA Care Twitter with the order number. Thank you. smcbridemck Hi Sadie thank you for letting us know. Please do not hesitate to contact us for future queries. Thank you. madisabel Hola envanos por favor ms detalles por MD a ZARA Care para poder ayudarte. Gracias. hannahfosterxox so that we may assist you further. Thank you. hannahfosterxox Hi Hannah we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number nicolajohnson so that we may assist you further. Thank you. nicolajohnson Hello NicolaRose thank you for your query. Please forward us a picture or reference number of the item HannahhhFoster this out in the future. Your feedback has been sent to the pertaining area as this helps us to improve. Thank you. KristinaMarsha Hi were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send be advised that we have replied to your PM. Thank you. HannahhhFoster Hi Hannah thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not offer this but do not rule ToinePrt Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans un magasin ZARA afin que notre personnel puisse vous aider. Merci. ToinePrt Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne nos articles tant soumis des contrles de qualit. oliviasharde We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. oliviasharde Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. smcbridemck Hi Sadie thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. danrub Hola hemos contestado a su mensaje directo. Muchas gracias. SexKittenRozzi the order number so we may take a look into this. Thanks. SexKittenRozzi Hi Rozzi. We are truly sorry to hear about your order. Please DM us with further details such as danrub Hola le pedimos que por favor nos contacte a travs de Zaracare nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter. Gracias. SignatureATL We await your reply. Thank you. SignatureATL Hi this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with your order number so we can further assist you. knapper you to take your item to store where it will be further assessed by a manager. Thank you. knapper Hello we are sorry to hear this as our products undergo strict quality controls before distribution. We kindly advise erikaa a travs de nuestro servicio de atencin al cliente cuenta de Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. erikaa Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude en contactar con nosotros erikaa Hola Erika. Lamentamos lo sucedido. Le pedimos que por favor nos enve un mensaje directo con ms detalles de lo sucedido. demircl Hello Laura we can confirm that we have replied to your DM. Thank you. rogierceron Hola nuestras rebajas en Blgica empiezan el de julio. Para futuras consultas puedes escribirnos a ZARA Care. Gracias. byebyefelecia Hi thanks for contacting us. Please send us DM via ZaraCare with details in order to further assist you. Thank you. danrub Hola. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Gracias. hoodo Hi we kindly ask you to DM us your order number ZARACare so we may further assist you. Thanks. AngelPremium Hola ngel te confirmamos que nuestras rebajas empiezan el viernes de junio. Gracias por tu inters. SeriouslyChris Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. demircl Hello Laura we can confirm that we have replied to your DM. Thank you. freyaks shot of the error message you are receiving. We await your reply. Thanks. freyaks Thanks for replying Freya. Please DM us your email address associated with your Zara account in addition send us a screen JuliaGallur Para futuras consultas puedes contactarnos a travs de ZARA Care. Gracias. JuliaGallur Hola Julia las sandalias que buscas estn actualmente agotadas y sin previsin de reposicin. lvndtopposite sobre lo sucedido indicando la tienda que has visitado. Muchas gracias. lvndtopposite Hola sentimos tu descontento. Por favor envanos ms datos por MD a ZARA Care Twitter zanakhan details including order number so that we may assist you. Thank you. zanakhan Hi Zana please be advised to avoid disclosing sensitive information publicly. We kindly request that you DM us further socialmediasian Hi Sian thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us for further assistance. Thank you. SophiaHoward so that we may assist you further. Thank you. SophiaHoward Hi Sophie thank you for your response. As previously requested please DM us further details of your query CatxicaMirao Ol. Por favor envienos um MD com mais informao para a nossa conta Zara Care para que possamos verificar. Obrigado. socialmediasian through our Zara Care account Thank you. socialmediasian able to assess it and advise you accordingly. For future enquiries please contact us socialmediasian We kindly advise you to visit your local Zara store at your earliest convenience where a senior staff member will be socialmediasian Hi Sian we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. JadeFitz as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. RossMills Hi Ross we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. tommyc appreciate your feedback and will make sure it is passed along to the relevant teams. Thank you. tommyc cut and fabric. Also garments of different materials can be perceived as different sizes. However we tommyc Hi Thomas we are sorry that you feel this way. We offer a wide range of sizes that may vary depending on the style abioseibonsu so that we may assist you further. Thank you. abioseibonsu Hi Abigail thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number SophiaHoward so that we may assist you further. Thank you. SophiaHoward Hi Sophia thank you for your response. We kindly request that you Direct Message us via our Zara Care account zoexo so that we may assist you further. Thank you. zoexo Hi Zoe were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more details elmorganx Hi Elle thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. keetkeets number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. babm for the inconvenience caused. Thank you. babm Hi Peter please note the requested service is not available. Please accept our sincerest apologies Mishkuana Hola. Le pedimos que por favor nos enve un mensaje indicando el nmero de pedido para poderle asistir. Gracias. Jordancubuffs was an instore or online purchase so we may take a look into this. Thank you. Jordancubuffs Hi Jordan we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please provide us with further details such as if this Jordancubuffs if this was an instore or online purchase so we make take a look into this. Thank you. Jordancubuffs Hi Jordan we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please provide us with further details such as cavalierlush visit so we may address this matter. We await your reply. Thanks. cavalierlush Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details including the stores location and the date and time of your babm to the one of your interest. Thanks. babm website and has no future replenishment. We kindly suggest you check the New In section for any new items that may be similar babm Hi Peter thank you for your interest in our products. Please be advised that this item will no longer be available on our US itstaylerward Hi Tayler please DM us further details so we may adequately assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. leehoseoks Thanks for your reply Aria. To better assist kindly DM us a picture or the reference number so we may verify. Thanks. charlytap nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Gracias. charlytap Hola Carlos. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Le pedimos que por favor Sptheghost Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. Thanks. JenCody Hi thanks for contacting us. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details. Thank you. TamaraAranda Hola Tamara sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para ayudarte. Gracias. BigGDesmond Hi Gareth we are sorry to hear about your disappointment. Please DM us further details to be able to assist. Thank you agyoLYS le ticket de caisse original. Nous restons votre disposition depuis le compte de notre service client ZARA Care. Merci. agyoLYS Bonsoir nous sommes dsols mais le retour ou lchange dun article achet en magasin ne peut pas tre effectu sans SophiaHoward Hi Sophia we are sorry to hear about your disappointment. Please DM us further details to be able to assist. Thank you iguessyoutube Hi please be advised that item is a sales item and is unlikely to be available again. Thanks. helloitskitkat message via ZARA Care with your order number so we may look into this. Thank you. helloitskitkat Hi as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details in public. Please send a private rhenkenmama Hi Cher please send us a DM to Zaracare with more details of your order so we may review this. Thanks. Sissypq with a positive shopping experience. Please note we will share your comments to improve our service. Sissypq Hi we are truly sorry to learn about your disappointment with the service provided. Zaras main goal is granting customers nadiyacha but our customers may use the fitting room of the gender they feel identified with. Thanks. nadiyacha Hi Nadiya please advise that the fitting rooms are located in the different sections of our stores rachelsdepass Hi Rachel we regret this. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry so we may better assist you. Thanks. RvnP Hi Arvin we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the location and time you have visited so we may better assist you. Thanks. meganhofferth Hi Megan we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details so we may better assist you. Thanks. bimbaylaurablog Hola envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para poder revisarlo. Gracias. Maris U kunt een DM sturen naar Zara Care of telefonisch met onze klantenservice contact opnemen. Bedankt. Maris Stuurt u ons alstublieft uw order nummer in een DM of neemt u met onze klantenservice contact op. Bedankt. Maris Dag Marit we adviseren onze klanten geen persoonlijke informatie zoals uw order nummer publiek te plaatsen. tradusantander Hola Cristina agradecemos tus comentarios que trasladaremos a la tienda. Muchas gracias cherrytbs para recibir informacin sobre promociones y tendencias. Gracias. cherrytbs Hola Tamara todava no disponemos de esa informacin. Te recomendamos que te subscribas a nuestra Newsletter zanakhan For future queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. zanakhan as this helps to improve our services. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. zanakhan Hi Zana thank you for your response. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the pertaining area demircl We kindly ask you to DM us with your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. demircl Hi Laura we are sorry to hear this as all of our items undergo strict quality measures before distribution. jclarke refund or exchange. Thank you. jclarke Hello please be advised that a member of management will assess the item for you in order to consider a Maris Bedankt voor uw bericht Marit. Stuurt u ons alstublieft uw order nummer in een DM zodat we u kunnen informeren. Alvast bedankt. Sissypq what happened and if we can help to solve any bad experience. Thank you. Sissypq Hi please send us your contact details by DM as we would like to know Lottietingting Hi Charlotte we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the XuacuLesBories Para cualquier otra consulta estamos a tu disposicin desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. XuacuLesBories Hola Xuacu gracias por informarnos. Hemos trasladado tus comentarios al rea responsable para su revisin. takethatbabe certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. takethatbabe Hi Diane we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most zanakhan order number so that we may assist you. Thank you. zanakhan Hi Zana we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We kindly request that you provide us with further details including leehoseoks Hello Aria please kindly confirm us the country where you would like to buy the item so we may assist you further. Thank you. SaraMachado However as the endofseason stock might undergo variations we recommend checking our website regularly. Thanks. SaraMachado Hello Sara the item Ref. is a sale item and therefore it is not likely to be replenished. marisaroa Hola Marisa sentimos tu descontento. Por favor envanos un MD a ZARA Care con ms datos para poder revisar lo sucedido. Gracias. KerryMayLines through our ZARA Care account Thanks. KerryMayLines Hi we are sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us more details about your visit to our Solihull branch EmilyCroninx so that we may improve our services. We apologise for any inconvenience. Thanks. EmilyCroninx Hi Emilly thanks for bringing this to our attention. Your comments have been forwarded to the relevant department AngelPremium tendencias y promociones. Para cualquier otra consulta nos puedes encontrar en ZARA Care Twitter. Muchas gracias. AngelPremium Hola ngel puedes suscribirte a nuestro Newsletter para recibir informacin actualizada sobre jennypeach to process a returnexchange. Thank you. jennypeach Hi Jenny thank you for your response. As previously advised the corresponding receipt is required emslouise DM with more details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. emslouise Hi Emma were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a teonaemilie so that we may assist you further. Thank you. teonaemilie We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location teonaemilie Hi Teona we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. belenrg lo que nos indicas. Esperamos tu respuesta. Muchas gracias. belenrg Hola Beln sentimos tu descontento. Envamos por favor un MD a travs de ZARA Care en Twitter para que podamos revisar LalaJrPorzio Ciao per favore inviarci maggiori dettagli attraverso un MD via ZARA Care per poterti aiutare. Grazie. VogueInMe en boutique en cliquant sur loption Voir disponibilit en magasin. Merci. VogueInMe Bonjour cet article ne sera en principe plus disponible en taille S sur notre site. Vous pouvez consulter le stock en LaurynMalolo ZARA Care une copie de votre ticket dachat Merci. LaurynMalolo Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne. Pourriez vous sil vous plat nous envoyer par MD notre compte takethatbabe further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. takethatbabe Hi Diane we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Please DM us JuanaManZanna todos los datos a travs de Luis Alberto Herrera Local Montevideo tel. . Gracias. JuanaManZanna Hola Juana permtanos indicarle que esta cuenta de atencin al cliente no est disponible para Uruguay. Puede remitir jclarke We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. jclarke Hi James we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. TrevorS further details of your query so that we may assist you further. Thank you. TrevorS Hello Sam thank you for contacting us. Please provide us with MimiandOscar so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. RossMills so that we may assist you further. Thank you. RossMills Hi Ross we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us further details of your query judybba Hello Judy thank you for your positive feedback. We will most certainly forward this on to the pertaining area. Thank you. BeLondoned We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. BeLondoned Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. CatherineCSG our Zara Care account Thank you. CatherineCSG as this helps to improve our services. For future queries please refer to CatherineCSG Hi Catherine thank you for your response. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the pertaining area milsxxx We will most certainly forward you feedback on to the pertaining area for their consideration. Thank you. milsxxx regards to our sizing. Our sizes may also differ depending on composition. milsxxx Hi Mil we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please be advised that we try to cater to all our customers demands in Sweatshirts for cool nights. Check more new items at debinthecityy Hi we are truly sorry about this. Please DM us with further details so we may look into this for you. Thanks. AlinaHalani Hi we do apologize for any inconvenience. If you require further assistance please do not hesitate to contact us. Thanks. AlinaHalani Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with more details so we may look into this for you. Thanks VogueInMe plusieurs clients ont reu cette alerte et il se peut que larticle spuise rapidement. Bonne soire. VogueInMe Bonjour nous vous confirmons que le pantalon Rf. est puis sur notre site. Veuillez prendre en compte que justNATE Hi Eric although no opening has been scheduled for this location we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in ZARA. CatherineCSG location so that we may assist you. Thank you. CatherineCSG Hi Catherine we are sorry to hear this. We kindly request that you provide us with further details including store mariecantor Hi Marie thanks for your interest. Kindly DM us a picture or the reference number so we may verify on our end. Thank you. MaricrisFdz Quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente ZARA Care. Que tengas un buen fin de semana Cris. MaricrisFdz Nos alegra saberlo. Ten en cuenta que nuestro personal debe priorizar la atencin a los clientes presentes en tienda. ConnorJHarris to our Zara Care account Thank you. ConnorJHarris corresponding department as this helps to improve our services. For future queries please refer ConnorJHarris Hi Connor we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the JoanneParman corresponding department as this helps to improve our services. Thank you. JoanneParman Hi Joanne we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the BrobeyShaw We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. BrobeyShaw Hi Belinda we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. MURRLAURA so that we may assist you. Thank you. MURRLAURA Hi Laura we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We kindly request that you DM us further details of your query strongenoughxx as this is not a service we provide. We apologise for any inconvenience caused. Thank you. strongenoughxx Hello thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we are unable to accommodate your request Nicolafatpants so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Nicolafatpants We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location Nicolafatpants Hi Nicola we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Jonathanhidalg Hi Jonathan thanks for your interest. To better assist kindly DM us your inquiry so we may properly advise you. Thanks. XtinaKLee Hi we are sorry you feel this way. Kindly DM us more details including your order number so we may better assist you. Thanks. potionsnpetals store location so that we may assist you. Thank you. potionsnpetals Hi Victoria we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We kindly request that you DM us further details including rwdoIan Hi Sofi thanks for your reply. Kindly DM us your request so we may better assist you. Thanks. MaricrisFdz Hola sentimos tu malestar. Envanos un MD a ZARA Care con tu consulta para que la podamos revisar nosotros. Muchas gracias. kellymaguire Hi Kelly thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. LiveExplore comments will be shared with the pertaining areas in order to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. LiveExplore Hi Katerina thanks for your reply. We certainly regret your discomfort with the resolution provided. Please note your AmeliaGibson replenishment. We suggest you continue to check our web regularly for any updates. Thank you. AmeliaGibson Hello Amelia since this item is on Sale we are sorry to inform you that we do not have information about its future letrihbegreat Hi we hebben op uw DM gereageerd. Bedankt. rwdoIan a picture or the reference number of the item via DM so that we may assist you further. Thank you. rwdoIan Hi Sofi thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly request that you provide us with AmeliaGibson through We hope that this information has been useful to you. Thank you. AmeliaGibson Hi Amelia thank you for your product query. Please be advised that the desired item is available foniii was vorgefallen ist und ob wir Ihnen weiterhelfen knnen. Vielen Dank. foniii Hi wir bitten Sie uns Ihre Kontaktdaten in einer DM mitzuteilen um zu erfahren kimmybxo Hi Kimberley we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. RichardChase so that we may assist you further. Thank you. RichardChase Hi were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more details Qbalogun so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Qbalogun Hi were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with your order number AKHtweet account Thank you. AKHtweet department as this helps to improve our services. For future queries please refer to our Zara Care AKHtweet Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding rwdoIan we cannot predict the stock availability of the reduced items. Thank you for your interest in our brand. rwdoIan Hello Sofi we would like to inform you that we do not have a date for the end of our Sale as Its time for the beach. Check swimwear collection at jency Hi Jennifer hearing this concerns us. Please send a DM to ZaraCare with further details so we may review this matter. Thanks. WSharkey Hi Steven we have replied to your DM. Thanks. Sherriff and the item ref for the top is . Thank you. Sherriff Hello Chloe thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that the item ref for the skort is clairefauquier Hi please be advised if you require further assistance please DM us with further details. Thanks. aguatxi departament pertinent el ms aviat possible. Grcies. aguatxi ms informaci sobre els fets incloent lhora en qu vas visitar la nostra botiga i secci. El revisarem amb el aguatxi Hola Isma sentim qualsevol molstia ocasionada. Si us plau envians un MD al nostre compte ZARA Care amb hjfkdjfjf queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. hjfkdjfjf that you subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly for further updates. For future hjfkdjfjf Hi thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have a sales start date. We kindly recommend Paulsabbo Hi as previously requested please DM us the email address used to sign up to our Newsletter leepmurgalerp Hi please be advised that ref. has sold out and will unlikely be available again. Thanks. GabeParkAve Hi Colin please note that our Brickell location will open in the Winter of . Thanks. begrammer Hi we apologize for any inconvenience. If you require further assistance please DM us with more details to assist you. Thanks. DaniTheGirl Hello. We have responded via DM. Thanks. Paulsabbo so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Paulsabbo Hi we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us the email address used when signing up to our Newsletter zoeswardrobe For further queries you may contact us through our ZARA Care customer service account. Thanks. zoeswardrobe Hi Zoe our sandals ref. are sold out and we do not expect them to be back available. mrkaicity matter. We await your reply. Thanks. mrkaicity Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details including the date and time of your visit so we may address this lucyhooper your query so that we may assist you further. Thank you. lucyhooper maintain the customer service level and may not be able to attend every call. Kindly DM us lucyhooper Hi Lucy please accept our apologies for the inconvenience caused. Please be advised that our stores must DanHariga Hi Dan thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account. Thank you. lavecinarubia os recomendamos este modelo de nuestra nueva temporada Gracias por vuestro inters en Zara lavecinarubia Hola Vecina Rubia Lo sentimos por tu amiga pero la chaqueta amarilla ya no est disponible. Sin embargo amandabromms Hello thank you for contacting us. Please confirm which size your require so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. MorganeCadot please do not hesitate to contact us back. Thank you. MorganeCadot Hi Morgane thank you for your response. Should you require further assistance rebeccapritch where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. rebeccapritch Hi Rebecca we apologise for this. We kindly suggest that you take the item to store with the corresponding receipt stashbuckle Hi we kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. kkxmb so that we may assist you further. Thank you. kkxmb Hi were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with your order number SmithEmma Hi we truly apologize for the negative experience. Your feedback will be shared with the branch for improvement. Thank you begrammer so that we may assist you further. Thank you. begrammer Hi Brittany were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more details chemingway corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. chemingway Hi Charlotte thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the DanHariga DM us further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. DanHariga Hi Dan we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We kindly request that you AKHtweet We apologise for any inconvenience caused. Thank you. AKHtweet Therefore as stated by our Terms of Purchase does not adhere to a price adjustment policy. AKHtweet Hi please be advised our prices may vary more than once during the season and sales period. Get ready for the weekend Cap with patch GeorginaMayx For further enquiries please contact us on Zara Care. Thank you. GeorginaMayx Hi Georgina thank you for contacting us. Please be advised we have replied to your DM on Zara Care. NinanaThtsMyNme so that we may assist you further. Thank you. NinanaThtsMyNme Hi Nina thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number MorganeCadot We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. MorganeCadot Hi Morgane we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. KiranKGhuman Hi Kiran were sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM with more details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. richardjno We will most certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. richardjno Hi we sincerely apologize for your experience and appreciate your feedback. DeModaMusic music selection at our stores. Thanks. DeModaMusic Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Unfortunately we do not have information regarding the LuceGoose Hello we can confirm that you may return an online order to a Zara store within the same country of purchase. Thank you. clairefauquier Hi we do apologize for any inconvenience. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. estherwalker condition and you will be required to present the corresponding receipt. Thank you. estherwalker any article within one month of the date of purchase. Items must be in their original estherwalker Hi Esther we kindly inform you that our customers are totally licensed to return freyaks trying to place your order via our website or the app so that we may assist you further. Thank you. freyaks Hi we apologise for the inconvenience caused. Please confirm which device you are using and whether you are shamdotk Hello please be advised that you may DM us via our Zara Care account Thank you. JoeMallett Hello Joe please be advised that you may DM us via our Zara Care twitter account Thank you. miixelnoia Quedamos a tu disposicin desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care para cualquier otra consulta. Gracias. miixelnoia Hola Michelle nuestra sudadera ref. est agotada online y no tenemos previsto que se reponga. letrihbegreat Hi bedankt voor uw bericht. Stuurt u ons alstublieft uw order nummer in een DM zodat we u kunnen informeren. Alvast bedankt. bradfein Hi Brad thank you for contacting us. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details. Thanks. LiveExplore Hi Katerina hearing this concerns us. Please send a DM to ZaraCare with more information. We await your reply. Thanks. StyleLivingMama you are trying to place your order via our website or the app so that we may assist you further. Thank you. StyleLivingMama Hi we apologise for the inconvenience caused. Please confirm which device you are using and whether youlovetiatoo Hi Kaye please DM us your order number ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. lizzypunch Hi Liz please DM us more information regarding this matter ZARACare. Thanks. AvidK Hi Avid we are glad to inform you that our US sale began today online and in stores. Thanks for your interest in our brand. JoeMallett Hi Joe we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. shamdotk or the reference number of the item so that we may assist you further. Thank you. shamdotk Hi thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly request that you DM us a picture JagheterSara For future queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. JagheterSara recommend that you subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly for further updates. JagheterSara Hi Sara thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have a sales start date. We kindly gillrickenbach comments have been forwarded to the relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. gillrickenbach Hi Gill we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. We can confirm that your Aliandro Size Guide for further information regarding sizing. Thank you. Aliandro Hi Aliandro thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly suggest that you visit our g at your disposal for any future query at our Customer Service ZARA Care. Thank you for your interest. g Hi we are not able to confirm the exact date yet. We recommend subscribing to our Newsletter for further updates. We remain chrisbear so that we may assist you further. Thank you. chrisbear is important to us. We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location chrisbear Hi Chris we apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused as our customers shopping experience intuMerryHill as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. intuMerryHill a store in this area but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback intuMerryHill Hi thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open ariannedgv Hi Arianne we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into this. Thanks. JoeMallett via this platform. We kindly suggest that you contact the store directly for further updates. Thank you. JoeMallett Hi Joe thank you for your interest in our products. Please be advised that we are unable to check Store Availability stashbuckle Hi thank you for your response. As previously advised we are handling your query via our Facebook account. Thank you. richardjno We await your reply. Thanks. richardjno Hi thank you for bringing this to our attention. Please confirm the stores location so we may address this matter. HelBel do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. HelBel Hi thank you for your query. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open a store in this area but StyleLivingMama Please let us know if we can assist you from our end. Thank you. StyleLivingMama Hi we are sorry to hear you have had difficulties placing your order. PauwelWiertsema Dag Pauwel bedankt voor uw bericht. Maten kunnen verschillen door design samenstelling en pasvorm. Bedankt. stashbuckle Hi thank you for your response. We can confirm that we are handling your query via our Facebook account. Thank you. realVash uns in einer DM die Bestellnummer und die Artikelnummern mitzuteilen. Vielen Dank. realVash Hi Dominik danke fr Ihr Interesse. Um Ihr Anliegen bearbeiten zu knnen bitten wir Sie ManonTro Nous vous invitons vous rendre en magasin afin de consulter sa disponibilit sur place. Merci. ManonTro Merci de votre rponse. Cette robe est malheureusement puise et elle ne sera en principe plus disponible. CaoimheMarie as feedback to the relevant department for their consideration as this helps us improve. Thank you. CaoimheMarie Social Media and was also available on the main website the day before. We will forward your comments PedreLouw we remain at your disposal at our Customer Service account ZARA Care. Thanks for your interest. PedreLouw Hi please be informed that our Sale in Portugal start on June rd both online and instore. For any further assistance ManonTro Bonjour merci de nous fournir une photo ou la rfrence de larticle en question afin que nous puissions vous renseigner. Merci Raychuwl continue to check our web regularly for any updates. Thank you. Raychuwl we do not have information about its future replenishment. We kindly suggest that you Raychuwl Hi Rachel thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that since this item is on Sale we are sorry to inform you that SosoLondon that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. SosoLondon Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We can confirm sophiekateblogs so that we may assist you further. Thank you. sophiekateblogs Hi Sophie we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number MartaGanga Hola Marta sentimos tu descontento. Trasladaremos lo que nos indicas al rea responsable para que lo revise. Gracias. mischadiaries as order numbers publicly. We kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. mischadiaries Hi Mischa we apologise for this. Please be advised to avoid disclosing sensitive information such stashbuckle We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. stashbuckle Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Omolarami Social Media and was also available on the main website the day before. Thank you. Omolarami Hi Lara we would like to inform you that the start date and time of our Sale was published via our Newsletter ndimichino Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. We await your reply. Thanks. MissMarissaaa from so that we may assist you further. Thank you. MissMarissaaa Hi Marissa thank you for your query. Kindly DM us with the country you are contacting us PatriceKing Social Media and was also available on the main website the day before. Thank you. PatriceKing Hi Patrice we would like to inform you that the start date and time of our Sale was published via our Newsletter ariannedgv Hi Arianne we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into this. Thank you. christinaxxv Hi thank you for contacting us. Please send us a DM ZaraCare with your order number for further assistance. Thanks. MartaGanga con ms datos sobre tu experiencia en tienda para que podamos revisarlo. Muchas gracias. MartaGanga Hola Marta sentimos cualquier molestia ocasionada. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care Marlawest Hi thanks for contacting us. Hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM ZaraCare with further details. Thank you. alexstraughan We can confirm that our York branch is open ampm tomorrow. Thank you. alexstraughan Hi Alex thank you for your query. Please be advised that our official sales date is Thursday nd June. AdamBilek abychom Vm mohli dle pomoci. Dkujeme Vm AdamBilek Dobr den Adame velmi ns mrz Vae zkuenost. Prosm polete nm zprvu s dalmi podrobnostmi Christinespag We recommend visiting our New In section for a similar item. Thanks. Christinespag Hi Christine kindly note that the bag ref is currently out of stock on our website. mouthwaite details including the store you are referring to as we would like to look into this matter promptly. Thanks. mouthwaite Hi Tamzin we are sorry for any inconvenience caused. Kindly send us a DM through our ZARA Care account with further OhEmKii Just tap on the envelope icon on your Twitter account ZARA Care and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks OhEmKii Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. AbundantlyDre Hi thank you for contacting ZARA. Please DM us with the stores location so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. maxxsera Hi Emily please note that you may send a DM through our ZARA Care account. We hope this helps. Thanks. SophieAcheson Hi Sophie thanks for contacting us. Please confirm your country of purchase. Thank you. MyLifeasAsh Hi please DM us your order number so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. rasheedkanbar Hi Rasheed thank you for contacting us. Please send more details of your query to ZaraCare. We await your reply. Thanks. dangodsall Hi Dan we can confirm that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. KirstyIC Hi we apologise for the inconvenience. Please send us a DM through our ZARA Care account so we can look into your case. Thanks. JamiewWeir Hi Jamie we are unable to confirm this as our replenishment times do vary depending on the garment. Thanks. akeki Hi Aimie kindly DM us your order number through our ZARA Care account so we can review your case. Thanks. danibambi Hi please send us a DM via ZARA Care on Twitter with further details datetime of visit so we can adequately assist. Thanks. lenaorts Thanks for your answer. We do not expect the item to be back online. We suggest you check with your local store. Thanks. anuskigt Te recomendamos acudir a tu tienda ms cercana para que nuestro personal pueda valorar el estado de las sandalias y ayudarte. anuskigt Hola Ana sentimos tu disconformidad con la calidad de nuestros artculos pues estos pasan estrictos controles de calidad. fuchsiablue In case of further queries please contact our Customer Care account on Twitter ZARA Care fuchsiablue instore customer service. For further assistance you can reach our store team on . fuchsiablue Hi Julie please note our store associates cannot tend to phone queries during busy times as they must prioritize AnnaLouiseFreem further queries please contact us on our Customer Care account ZARA Care Thanks. AnnaLouiseFreem visit one of our Zara stores where the manager will assess your faulty product and assist you accordingly. For AnnaLouiseFreem Hello Anna Louise we wanted to apologise as all our product are submitted to strict quality controls. Please kindly lenaorts Hello Lenny please send us a picture of the item or the reference number so that we can help. Thanks. DannySteeden corresponding department. We remain at your disposal for any further assistance at our ZARA Care account. Thanks. DannySteeden Hi Dan we apologize for the inconvenience. Please be kindly advised that we have already forwarded this issue to the gumkenth comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. gumkenth Hi Gum thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your EllisRoach Hi Ellis please send us a DM to our ZARA Care account including the order number so we may further assist. Thank you. trazmac your disposal for any future assistance at our customer service account ZARA Care. Thanks. trazmac recommend visiting your local Zara store where a senior staff member will assess it and advise you accordingly. We remain at trazmac Hi we are truly sorry to hear about this given that our products undergo strict quality control procedures. We kindly Cupeecaketee store in regards to store availability. We remain at your disposal at our customer service account ZARA Care. Thanks. Cupeecaketee Hi the top ref. is out of stock online and no future replenishment is expected. You may contact your local robrjim Hola Rober envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para poder revisarlo. Gracias. katiecrosswell details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. katiecrosswell Hi Katie were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with more Truddie newsletter for further updates Feel free to contact us via ZARA Care with future queries. Thanks. RoseanneBlake Hi Rosy please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. rebeccajanex Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. rebeccajanex Hi Rebecca we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. SrtaFlores actualizaciones Para futuras consultas te esperamos en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. josayhef as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. SrtaFlores Hola an no disponemos de esa informacin. Te recomendamos que te subscribas a nuestra Newsletter para recibir josayhef Hello Joseph thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that this has been forwarded to the relevant department alexandoo for updates such as the start of the sales. Thank you for your interest in Zara. alexandoo We kindly recommend that you subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly alexandoo Hello Alex we are unable to confirm a specific date for the beginning of our summer sale. nicolahopexo Hi Nicola we can confirm that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. gregbfc as this helps us improve our services. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. gregbfc Hi Greg we apologise for this. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department giselemarciano We kindly suggest you continue to regularly check our website for any updates. Thank you. giselemarciano Hi Gisele please note that the Printed Kimono ref is currently out of stock as it is a Sale item. hattiewatson Hi Hattie thanks for your interest. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. rachhyyyyyy We await your reply. Thanks. rachhyyyyyy Hi we are truly sorry about this. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. Livforbeauty Hi thanks for contacting us. Please send us a DM with further details ZaraCare to further assist you. Thank you. AmandaMManning Thanks for your interest in Zara. AmandaMManning Hi although no opening has been scheduled for this location we do not rule it out in the future. angelinashoots Hi we regret to hear this. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to better assist you. Thanks. OhEmKii Hi thanks for your interest. We kindly ask you to DM us with the information so we may look into this for you. Thank you. clerrchristine refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. clerrchristine as this helps us to improve our services. For future queries please clerrchristine this area but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback to the corresponding department clerrchristine Hi Claire thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open a store in fkamimi contctenos a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente de Twitter Zaracare. Muchas gracias. fkamimi Esperamos que tenga una mejor experiencia en su prxima visita a nuestras tiendas. Para cualquier otra consulta fkamimi con nuestra sucursal Zara Fashion Mall Chihuahua para evitar que esto vuelva a ocurrir. fkamimi Hola. Lamentamos sinceramente lo sucedido. Sus comentarios sern revisados internamente meganarnotx your dress to your nearest store where our staff will be able to further assist you. Thanks. meganarnotx Hi Megan we are sorry to hear this as our garments are subjected to strict quality tests. We recommend you take Its time to play Girls editorial now available zarakids zaraeditorial mommyzoid Thank you for your interest in Zara. mommyzoid Hi Stephanie we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Your encouraging feedback is appreciated. angelascanlon including the location of the store that you visited so we can look into this matter as soon as possible. Thanks. angelascanlon Hi Angela we are truly sorry to hear this. Kindly send us a DM through our ZARA Care account with further details Christinespag You will be promptly notified once more information is available. Thanks. Christinespag Thanks for your reply Christine. Kindly note that we have submitted the details of your inquiry to our team. ashecorven En caso futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Muchas gracias. ashecorven Hola Alberto. En este momento no contamos con la informacin solicitada. littleamy estamos a su disposicin a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente Zaracare en Twitter. Gracias. littleamy Le pedimos disculpas por cualquier molestia que esto le haya ocasionado. Para futuras consultas littleamy Hola. Sentimos lo sucedido. Hemos trasladado sus comentarios al departamento correspondiente. klossapaillette Effectivement bien que vous ne disposiez plus du ticket dachat nos collgues seront en mesure de vous aider. Merci. Ytbcyril Bonjour pour le moment nous noffrons pas ce type de service. Nous vous remercions de votre intrt pour Zara. Bonne soire. sydstinson Hi Sydney we are glad we were able to meet your expectations and appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks. jakeyjake Hi Jake please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. maxxsera Just tap on the envelope icon on your Twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks maxxsera Hi Emily please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. sarahwilson Hi Sarah please note that we have replied to your via DM. Thanks. felixdewolfe services. For future queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. felixdewolfe area as this helps to improve our services. For future queries please refer to our felixdewolfe Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the pertaining jennypeach For future queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. jennypeach exchanges. Please be advised that the corresponding receipt is required and the item must be in its original condition. jennypeach Hi Jenny thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that you have days from the purchase date for any returns TARRAR campaigns and the latest trends. For further inquiries you may contact us via ZaraCare. Thanks. TARRAR Hi please subscribe to our Newsletter You will receive information about upcoming promotions rymanb Hi Ryan thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. klossapaillette Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans un magasin Zara afin que notre personnel puisse vous aider. Merci. klossapaillette Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne. Sachez que nos articles sont soumis des contrles de qualit. rymanb where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. rymanb Hi Ryan thank you for your response. As previously advised we kindly suggest that you take the item to store giselemarciano relevant department. You will be contacted very soon with an update about this matter. Thank you. giselemarciano Hi Gisele thanks for contacting ZARA and we appreciate your interest in our brand. We have sent your request to the Its time to play Girls editorial now available Paulsabbo We kindly suggest that you sign up to our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. Paulsabbo Hi thank you fro contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any information regarding sales. TinaBumBiina Hi Tina wir haben Ihnen in der privaten Nachricht geantwortet. Vielen Dank. charlottecomery so that we may assist you further. Thank you. charlottecomery Hi Charlotte thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number torbsclaire on our website for similar styles. Thank you. torbsclaire and is not expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit the New In section torbsclaire Hi Victoria thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that item ref. is sold out online rymanb We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. rymanb Hi Ryan we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. CaPuSitO Al tratarse de informacin orientativa te recomendamos que llames a la tienda para comprobarlo. Gracias. CaPuSitO Hola te informamos de que el pantaln que buscas estara disponible en principio en la tienda de Adeje en la talla . ozgesenturk Hello zge please be advised that you can check the item by the link Thank you Its time to play Girls editorial now available zarakids zaraeditorial awhitechapel Hi Agatha please be advised that we have replied to you via DM. Thank you. lucyoshea so that we may assist you further. Thank you. lucyoshea Hi Lucy we are sorry to hear this. We kindly request that you DM us further details AutismBeds Hi thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Christinespag Hi Christine please confirm the country you are contacting us from so we may further assist. Thanks. maxxsera Hi Emily thanks for contacting ZARA. To better assist kindly DM us more details including the reference numbers. Thanks. MWPRINCight Hi we regret to hear this. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry so we may better assist you. Thanks. ImSanchezDaniel contactar con nosotros a travs de nuestro servicio de atencin al cliente cuenta de Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. ImSanchezDaniel informacin sobre las prximas promociones y novedades. Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude en ImSanchezDaniel Sin embargo le invitamos a suscribirse a nuestra Newsletter De este modo recibir ImSanchezDaniel Hola Csar. En respuesta a su consulta le informamos que no contamos con la informacin solicitada. LuisinLopez para su consideracin. Para cualquier otra consulta quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. LuisinLopez Hola gracias por hacernos llegar esta informacin. Hemos trasladado tus comentarios al rea responsable GarcaRoco Hola compartiremos tu opinin sobre los precios de nuestros arreglos con el departamento pertinente para su revisin. Gracias. tnadeau Hi Ted we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the time of your visit so we may properly assist you. Thanks. tiaboulossssss feedback. Thanks tiaboulossssss Hi Tia thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. We appreciate your encouraging sandrasuissamog Hi to adequately assist in this matter please DM us further details ZaraCare so it may be properly reviewed. Thanks. stess Hi we are sorry to hear about this. We appreciate your feedback which will be shared with the relevant department. Thanks. giselemarciano Hi thanks for your reply. Kindly DM us the reference number or picture of the item so we may better assist you. Thanks. Lagatixa of the item you are referring to so that we may assist you further. Thank you. tiaboulossssss be forwarded to the relevant department for future consideration. Thanks. tiaboulossssss Hi Tia thank you for contacting ZARA. We apologize for your discomfort. Please note that your feedback will certainly eddy including the location of the store and the date and time of your visit so we can review this as soon as possible. Thanks. mlim Hi Maria hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. Thanks. eddy Hi we are truly concerned about your comments. Please send us a DM through our ZARA Care account with further details ArionnaAStanley For future queries please contact us via ZaraCare. Thank you for your interest in Zara. ArionnaAStanley Hi thanks for getting back to us. We are sorry to inform you that the item has sold out in size . KMDJewelry Hi Kimberly we are sorry about this. Kindly DM us more details to better assist you. Thanks. fatikonate de notre site o vous pourrez trouver un produit similaire susceptible de vous intresser. Merci. fatikonate Bonjour cet article nappartient pas notre collection actuelle. Nous vous invitons consulter les Nouveauts livvmoran where you will receive the latest updates on our promotions collections and releases. Thank you. livvmoran our sales. We kindly suggest that you subscribe to our Newsletter livvmoran Hi Olivia thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not currently have any information regarding kbiain al departamento correspondiente puesto que comentarios como el tuyo nos ayudan a mejorar da a da. Gracias. kbiain Hola Karen nos alegra saber que tu experiencia con nuestro servicio de chat ha sido positiva. Trasladaremos tus comentarios DebbieDougal our local partners the BritishRedCross DebbieDougal Hi Debbie our thoughts are with all those affected. We are coordinating clothes donations through BarbieeeexO further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. BarbieeeexO Hi San we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Please DM us juanjogibeller incluyendo la localizacin de la tienda y la hora aproximada de tu visita para que podamos revisarlo. Gracias. juanjogibeller Hola sentimos las molestias ocasionadas. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con ms datos This is zaranewin Dress available at AngelaAlexisxo will certainly receive information regarding our SpringSummer Sale. We appreciate your interest in our brand. Thanks. AngelaAlexisxo Thanks for getting back to us Dana. We assure you once you subscribe to our Newsletter you mmaggiewongg Hi Maggie we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. LeahSuggxo where you may browse our latest collection. Thank you. LeahSuggxo and will not be replenished. We kindly suggest that you view our New In section LeahSuggxo Hi Leah thank you for your query. Please be advised that item ref. is sold out online daisysid We kindly suggest that you sign up to our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. daisysid Hi Sid thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any information regarding sales. IrenaDworld for updates such as the start of the sales. Thank you for your interest in Zara. IrenaDworld We kindly recommend that you subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly IrenaDworld Hello we are unable to confirm a specific date for the beginning of our summer sale. Jadelivs and fabric.We suggest you visit our Size Guide at for details on the measurements of our items. Thank you Jadelivs Hi Jade we are sorry that you feel this way. We offer a wide range of sizes that may vary depending on the style LimbadaSalma your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. LimbadaSalma Hi Salma we apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused. We can confirm that we have forwarded sandrasuissamog Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM to Zara Care with further details so we can review it. Thanks. TinaBumBiina Sie knnen uns gerne eine private Nachricht senden damit wir den Fall melden knnen. Vielen Dank. TinaBumBiina Hallo wir wollten Sie darber informieren dass das von Ihnen genannte Gewinnspiel nicht in Verbindung mit ZARA steht. helloruthless campaigns and the latest trends. For future queries feel free to contact us via ZaraCare. Thanks. helloruthless Hi please subscribe to our Newsletter You will receive information about upcoming promotions Tor corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. Tor Hi Victoria thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the giselemarciano Hi please confirm the country from which you are contacting us so we may further assist. Thanks. CaPuSitO Si deseas que revisemos la disponibilidad en tienda indcanos una tienda Zara cercana y la talla deseada. Gracias. CaPuSitO Gracias por tu respuesta. El pantaln Ref. est agotado en la web y en principio no est prevista su reposicin. georgiaakay We kindly suggest that you sign up to our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. georgiaakay Hi Gerogia please be advised that we currently do not have any information regarding sales. ninetydayfiance Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. lazylucy We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. lazylucy Hi Lucy we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. DorotaStrak request that you DM us further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. DorotaStrak Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We kindly TinyT Hi although no opening has been scheduled for this location we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in ZARA. demoiselledena Hi Dena thanks for your interest. To better assist kindly DM us the reference number of the item so we may verify. Thanks. danagilliann Hi Dana we have replied to your DM. Thank you. hall We kindly ask you to DM us with your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. hall Hi Rachel we are sorry to hear this as all of our items undergo strict quality measures before distribution. kevyjames Hi Kevin thanks for bringing this to our attention. Please DM us the stores location so we may address this issue. Thanks. fatikonate et nous reviendrons vers au plus vite avec davantage dinformations. Merci. fatikonate Bonjour nous avons transmis votre demande au dpartement concern RobertTheQueen Hi Robert we are truly sorry. To better assist kindly DM us more details including the location you visited. Thanks. Jhnorton more details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Jhnorton Hi Jessica were sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please send us a DM with samladflynn where the purchase was processed. We hope you find this information useful. Thank you. samladflynn Hi Samuel thanks for your message. Regarding your query please note items must be returned in the same country Emanuel previously requested. We await your reply. Thanks. Emanuel Thank you for replying Emanuel. So we may address this issue adequately please provide the stores location as stess it is advisable to contact the branch you wish to visit directly. Thanks. stess as store stock may quickly vary due to punctual demand. For more accurate details stess Hi we apologise for the inconvenience. Please note the InStore Availability search option only provides approximate results arlenephillips Hi Arlene please DM us further details of your query to be able to assist. Thank you. arlenephillips Hi Arlene we kindly ask you to provide us more information in a DM so we can review this. Thanks. GarcaRoco Hola Roco sentimos las molestias. Trasladaremos tu comentario al rea responsable para revisarlo con la tienda. Gracias. grainnemac for updates such as the start of the sales. Thank you for your interest in Zara. grainnemac We kindly recommend that you subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly grainnemac Hello Grainne we are unable to confirm a specific date for the beginning of our summer sale. KSINC Hi Kate thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. EjiroDemontague Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. EjiroDemontague Hi we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. helloruthless Hello kindly inform us which country you are contacting us from so that we can inform you appropriately. Thank you. BrookeHGates details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. BrookeHGates Hi we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Please DM us further CaPuSitO Hola por favor faciltanos la referencia para poder darte ms informacin. Gracias. HWkits Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Kindly DM us your order number so we may further assist you. Thanks. ArionnaAStanley Hi we kindly ask you to confirm the size in question so we may further assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. vicsays Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. We await your reply. Thanks. twiddard Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. BrooklynGirl Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. Emanuel location and the date and time of your visit so we may address the matter. Thanks. Emanuel Hi Emanuel we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the stores pistachiodot receive information about our upcoming Summer Sales. Thanks for your interest in our brand. pistachiodot Hi thanks for getting back to us. We recommend you subscribe to our Newsletter You will pripriii Hi Priya we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry so we may look into it. Thanks. sandrinegf Bonsoir envoyeznous par MD notre compte ZARA Care le numro de commande afin que nous puissions vous aider. Merci. Katrinacm subscribe to our Newsletter to receive information about our upcoming sales in the US. Thanks. Katrinacm Hi Katrina thanks for your query. Please be advised that our Summer Sales began today in Canada only. We recommend you ashleyestrada West Field Valley Fair and the Broadway Plaza locations. We hope this is useful. Thanks. ashleyestrada Hi Ashley thanks for your query. Please be advised that the closest stores from the LivermorePleasonton are the ErianSalgado en contactar con nosotros a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. ErianSalgado Esperamos que esta informacin le resulte til. Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude ErianSalgado puede acercarse directamente a la sucursal para solicitar la factura presentando el ticket de la compra. ErianSalgado Gracias por su respuesta Erian. Le informamos de que al tratarse de una compra en tienda luceclarkx Please DM us further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. luceclarkx Hi Luce we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. ErianSalgado Si se trata de una compra online envenos su nmero de pedido. Gracias. ErianSalgado Hola Erian. Por favor indquenos si se trata de una compra en lnea o en tienda. littleamy Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Gracias. littleamy Hola. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. pistachiodot you have any further queries. Thanks. pistachiodot Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us back if FountainOf Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM zaracare with further details so we can review. Thanks. momrun Please DM us the requested information ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. momrun Hi Lori as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or purchase details. elieboy item you are referring to so we may assist you. Thanks. elieboy Hi Elie thank you for contacting ZARA. Please DM our Customer Care account at Zaracare with the reference number of the ElHombreRiko en contactar con nosotros a travs de nuestro servicio de atencin al cliente cuenta de Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. ElHombreRiko recibir informacin sobre las prximas promociones y novedades. Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude ElHombreRiko le recomendamos que se suscriba a nuestra Newsletter De este modo ElHombreRiko Hola. En este momento no contamos con la informacin solicitada. Sin embargo VDUPUIS Hi Veronique we have replied to your message via our Facebook account. Thanks. katiekaymead Hi Katie your comments concern us. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. Vsimpson Hello we can confirm that we have replied to your DM. Thank you. danagilliann Hi Dana this really concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details. Thanks. softsexylips so we may better assist you. Thanks. softsexylips Hi were sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details at our Customer Care account at Zaracare Jlacour may adequately assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. Jlacour Hi Jonathan we are truly sorry to hear this. Please forward your query to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we PatreceF to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. PatreceF Hi Patrece thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments waterlilyto number in the second box without dashes spaces or symbols. We hope you find this information useful. Thanks. waterlilyto Hi we are sorry to hear this . We kindly ask that you leave the in the first box and enter your digit telephone eyedasophia your visit. We await your reply. Thanks. eyedasophia Hi this truly concerns us . Kindly DM us further details including the stores location and the date and time of emilymarie for updates such as the start of the sales. Thank you for your interest in Zara. emilymarie We kindly recommend that you subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly emilymarie Hello Emily we are unable to confirm a specific date for the beginning of our summer sale. Vsimpson so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Vsimpson and may not be able to attend every call. Please DM us your query via our Zara Care account Vsimpson Hello Victoria we apologise for this. Please be advised that our stores must maintain a high level of customer service JillHudson We are in the process of coordinating clothes donations through our local partners the BritishRedCross JillHudson Hi Gillian our thoughts are with all those affected. OiYanCandy We are in the process of coordinating clothes donations through our local partners the BritishRedCross OiYanCandy Hi Candy our thoughts are with all those affected. MoiraPlease We are in the process of coordinating clothes donations through our local partners the BritishRedCross MoiraPlease Hi Maddie our thoughts are with all those affected. MartyAMG Si vous rencontrez le moindre problme avec larticle achet nhsitez pas revenir vers nous. Merci. MartyAMG Notre objectif est deffectuer la livraison au plus vite afin que vous puissiez recevoir vos produits rapidement. MartyAMG Bonjour pour des raisons de scurit nous vous dconseillons de divulguer publiquement des informations personnelles. KatieJaneEvans Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. KatieJaneEvans Hi Katie we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. jaderosealmond so that we may assist you further. Thank you. jaderosealmond We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location jaderosealmond Hi Jade we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Tor accessed via the following link Thank you. Tor Hi Victoria thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that item ref. may be emilytalaga Hi Emi please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. BeckieCrawford We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. BeckieCrawford Hi Beck we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. donnat positive one. For future queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. donnat managed internally with our Zara branch to prevent this from reoccurring. We hope that your next experience with us is a donnat Hi Donna we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback which will be Leticiagoga mejorar y te informamos de que los hemos trasladado al departamento correspondiente. Gracias. Leticiagoga de las mismas dependen de decisiones comerciales. Te agradecemos tus comentarios ya que nos ayudan a Leticiagoga Hola Leticia. Te informamos de que las tallas en las que se distribuyen algunas de nuestras prendas y el corte y diseo FranDbn calidad de atencin al cliente. Trasladaremos tu comentario al rea responsable para revisarlo con la tienda. Gracias FranDbn Gracias por tu respuesta. Sentimos tu descontento y lo sucedido. Esta experiencia se aleja mucho de nuestros estndares de This is zaranewin. Long double breasted jacket and multicolor tote bag LifestyleCFab corresponding department as this helps to improve our services. Thank you. LifestyleCFab Hi Claudia thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the Channell Hi Channell thanks for your reply. Please note that we have responded to your DM regarding your request. Thanks. momrun a copy of the purchase receipt so we may take a look into this. Thank you. momrun if this was an online purchase. In case the item was bought at the store please DM us momrun Hi Lori thanks for your reply. In order for us to take a look into this we kindly ask that you confirm the order number daviddjason Hi we are truly sorry you feel this way. Kindly DM us more details so we may better assist you. Thanks. jeannedieIman In the meanwhile kindly visit our New In section for our latest trends. Thanks. jeannedieIman Hi thanks for your reply. Please note that we will submit your feedback for consideration. lconlan We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. lconlan suggest to reinstall the app so that you may have the latest version downloaded. lconlan Hello Lesley thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that you are able to filter by price on our Zara app. We kindly Channell Hi Channell thanks for your interest. Kindly DM us your inquiry so we may better assist you. Thanks. jeannedieIman We recommend checking our New In section for similar items. We hope this helps. Thanks. jeannedieIman Hi please note that the Embroidered Shoes are sold out in this particular size with no scheduled replenishment. momrun Hi Lori this concerns us. Kindly DM us more details ZARACare including the time of your visit and the store involved. Thanks. NickyRR We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. NickyRR Hi Nicola we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. AmyOCx contact the following number . Thank you. AmyOCx Hello Amy please accept our apologies for the inconvenience caused. We kindly ask you to mrhollywood so we may better assist you. Thanks. mrhollywood Hi LeVon we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number at our Customer Care account at Zaracare mmalyse Hi Michele we apologize for any inconvenience. Please DM us ZARACare with further details for assistance. Thanks. robertosierra Por favor envenos un MD con mas detallas a ZARACare para poder asistirle. Gracias. robertosierra Hola Roberto. Sentimos lo sucedido ya que nuestros artculos estn sometidos a controles de calidad estrictos. chavifrench Hola Javier sentimos lo que comentas. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a ZARA Care para poder revisarlo. Gracias. shanghaishu Hi hearing this concerns us. Please send a DM via ZaraCare with your order number so we may review this matter. Thanks. ninetydayfiance Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. EmmaJaneLockwoo stores. We cannot take responsability for any item that was not purchased through these official channels. Thank you. EmmaJaneLockwoo Hi Emma kindly note that our products are only distributed through the official webpage or MadeMePretty Hi Dionna we have replied to your DM. Thank you. scarecrowsix fabricacin puedes acudir a tu tienda ZARA ms cercana y nuestros empleados podrn valorarlo y ofrecerte ayuda. Gracias scarecrowsix Sentimos que esta sea tu impresin te informamos de que si consideras que algn artculo presenta un defecto de thecranewizard as feedback to our pertaining areas as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. thecranewizard Hello James thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments LifestyleCFab black. We hope that this information has been useful to you. Thank you. LifestyleCFab Hi Claudia thank you for your product query. Please be advised that item is also available in AimezWilkoo We kindly suggest that you sign up to our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. AimezWilkoo Hi Aimee thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any information regarding sales. hackingsas so that we may assist you further. Thank you. FranDbn Hola Fran envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles incluyendo la tienda a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para revisarlo. Gracias. Rememberursmile Hola hemos contestado a tu MD. Gracias. scarecrowsix atendiendo a diversos factores como el diseo el patrn o la composicin y elasticidad de los tejidos. Gracias. scarecrowsix Hola te informamos de que en ocasiones la misma talla puede variar ligeramente de unos artculos a otros sandradazads Hola Sandra hemos respondido a tu mensaje directo. Gracias. pacotade nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles para poder asistirle. Gracias. pacotade Hola. Nos preocupa lo que nos comenta. Le pedimos que por favor AngelaAlexisxo You will receive information about our upcoming sales and promotions. Thanks. AngelaAlexisxo Hi Dana thank you for your interest in our products. We recommend you subscribe to our Newsletter yaammzzz Thank you for your kind words. If you have any future queries please contact us ZARACare. Thanks. MadeMePretty We await your reply. Thanks. MadeMePretty Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. arizza Hi Ariana we apologize for any inconvenience. Please DM us your query ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. yaammzzz Hi no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. tifftran Hi Tiffany. Please DM us your query ZARACare so we may further assist. Thanks. DoisUmDoisIV Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. fraunet Hola Fanny por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care con tu nmero de pedido para que podamos ayudarte. Gracias. mckayskitchen address this matter. We await your reply. Thanks. mckayskitchen Hi Jane thanks for your reply. Please forward your query to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may georgiaroseyy may browse our latest collection and find something of interest. Thank you. georgiaroseyy size S or other sizes. We kindly suggest to see our New In section where you georgiaroseyy Hi thank you for getting back to us. Please be advised that this item ref will not be replenished online in LuisGuemart el tiempo de escribirnos estos comentarios y sern valorados para mejorar en un futuro. Gracias. LuisGuemart Hemos pasado el caso al departamento correspondiente Luis. Te agradecemos que te hayas tomado sandradazads Hola Sandra. Podras enviarnos un MD a ZARA Care con ms detalles sobre lo sucedido para poder revisar este caso Gracias Omar Hola te informamos de que las rebajas de verano comienzan el de Julio tanto online como en nuestras tiendas. Gracias. georgiaroseyy Hello please confirm the country where you are contacting us from so that we can help. Thanks. mckayskitchen Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. jeannedieIman We kindly suggest visiting our New In section for similar items. Thanks. jeannedieIman Hi thanks for your reply. Please note that the Mules with Methacrylate Heel are sold out in size . makisunshine Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. makisunshine llamando al para que le puedan asistir. Esperamos que esta informacin le resulte til. makisunshine Hola. Le sugerimos que se ponga directamente en contacto con la sucursal Zara Perisur slashingbee Bonjour merci de nous indiquer par MD notre compte ZARA Care sil sagit dun achat effectu en magasin ou online. Merci. shaMAYHEM Hi please DM us further details regarding your query so we may assist you. Thanks. jeannedieIman We recommend checking our New In section where you may find an item similar to your interest. Thanks. jeannedieIman Hi thanks for your interest. Please note that the shoes are out of stock in Size with no scheduled replenishment. trafficgurl or online purchase. If online please provide us with the order number. Thanks. trafficgurl Hi kindly DM us further details via ZARACare including whether your query is associated with an instore cherna Hola Carolina sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor ms detalles por MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para poder revisarlo. Gracias. arabianmonsta you are contacting us from so we may assist you further with your query. arabianmonsta Hello please DM us more details to ZARA Care including the items reference number and confirming also the country muchcomplaint your visit so we may address this matter. Thanks. muchcomplaint Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details including the stores location and the date and time of mrselj Hi Erika please DM us further details regarding your query so we may adequately assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. burkeburkemab corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. burkeburkemab Hi thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the KaosCalvo Ciao inviaci per favore un MD al nostro account di ZARA Care con il numero di riferimento per ulteriore assistenza. Grazie. visiterbeauvais suggestion au service concern. Merci de votre intrt pour notre marque. Bonne journe. visiterbeauvais Bonjour pour le moment louverture dun magasin Beauvais nest pas prvue. Cependant nous transmettons votre lauramecu Hola Laura hemos contestado a tu MD. Gracias anavacasanchez en particular en el que ests interesada puedes enviarnos su referencia por MD a nuestra cuenta Zara Care. Gracias anavacasanchez Hola Ana te invitamos a consultar la seccin Swimwear de nuestra web Si hay algn artculo ChunJingLin Hi and thanks for contacting us. Please DM us further details to be able to assist. Thank you. VintageOwl department as this helps to improve our services. Thank you. VintageOwl Hi thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding mirelamustata or order details in public. Please send us a DM so that we may review this with the corresponding department. Thank you. mirelamustata Hello Mirela please be advised that as a precautionary measure we recommend that our customers do no publish personal LuisGuemart nuestro equipo de tiendas en el ellos te podrn poner directamente en contacto con la tienda. Gracias. LuisGuemart siempre orientativa. Te recomendamos que en casos de disponibilidad tan reducida contactes con LuisGuemart Sentimos lo que nos comentas Luis. Te recordamos que la informacin de disponibilidad en tienda de nuestra web y app es NoiramxuoniG Bonjour Marion pourriezvous sil vous plat nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care Merci. WestleySmith sign up to our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. WestleySmith Hi please be advised that we currently do not have any information regarding sales. We kindly suggest that you abbywaither website for similar styles. Thank you. abbywaither and is not expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit the New In section on our abbywaither Hi thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that the mentioned item is sold out online katemmacooper We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. katemmacooper Hi Katie we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. sashiotis as this account allows us to receive DMs without following our customers. Thank you. sashiotis Hi Stephen thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account DayhannaAcosta Hi Dayhanna thanks for the information provided. We kindly ask that you DM us your contact information raniovuitton Hola Ranio. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles de los sucedido para poder asistirle. Gracias. Gloriabascon Nos alegra or eso Gloria. Para futuras consultas quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Muchas gracias. YASaquarius Hello we can confirm that we have replied to your DM. Thank you. sashiotis to us. We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. sashiotis Hi Stephen we apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused as our customers shopping experience is important gemmasearle uw opmerking met de desbetreffende afdelingen zal worden gedeeld. De mening van onze klant vinden wij erg belangrijk. gemmasearle Hallo wij waarderen uw feedback. Dit helpt om onze service te blijven verbeteren. Wij willen u er graag op wijzen dat RhysWard Hi Rhys we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details to our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. mamacuchufleta de perfil de nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care. Esperamos que esta informacin sea de utilidad. Gracias. mamacuchufleta Hola puedes enviarnos un MD pinchando en el icono de mensaje que encontrars debajo de nuestra foto katy We kindly suggest that you sign up to our Newsletter for further updates. Thank you. katy Hi Katy thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have information regarding sales. lindabebrane en nous indiquant notamment le magasin en question. Dans lattente de votre rponse. Merci. lindabebrane Bonjour pourriezvous sil vous plat nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care NicolasPiston tienda. Revisaremos lo que nos comentas con el departamento correspondiente. Muchas gracias. NicolasPiston Hola Nicolas. Gracias por contactarnos. Envanos por favor un mensaje privado a ZARA Care con la ubicacin de la danielephillips as this helps improve our services. Thank you. danielephillips Hello we apologise for this. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback on to the pertaining area Omiieejj in een direct message via onze klantenservice account ZARA Care Bedankt. Omiieejj Hallo Naomi bedankt voor uw bericht. Om u beter van dienst te kunnen zijn vragen wij om uw bestelling nummer kateirwin our services. We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. kateirwin We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve kateirwin Hi Kate we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. michell Hi kindly confirm the country of purchase so we can look into your case. You can send it via DM to ZARA Care. Thanks. mamacuchufleta Hola por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con tu nmero de pedido para que podamos ayudarte. Gracias. KessBess where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. KessBess Hi thank you for your response. We kindly suggest that you take the item to store Gloriabascon Hola Gloria por favor confirma la talla en la que ests interesada para que podamos informarte adecuadamente. Gracias. AdrianMtnez Hola Adrian podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. Exoon corresponding receipt as stated in our terms and conditions. Thank you. Exoon Hi we apologise for this. Please be advised that we are unable to accommodate refundsexchanges without the This is zaranewin The timeless polka dot zaratrf YanelEscobar Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply.Thanks. janapollet Hi Jana we have responded to your DM. Thank you. taniadg you may find the information about our next sale. We hope this helps Thank you. taniadg Hi thanks for your interest in our items. We kindly suggest that you subscribe to our Newsletter where Drofinad you may find the information about our next sale. We hope this helps Thank you. Drofinad Hi thanks for your interest in our items. We kindly suggest that you subscribe to our Newsletter where Jonathanhidalg Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into it. Thank you. kimhmorrow Hi Kim we are truly sorry hear this. Please DM us with further details via Zara Care so we may take a look into this.Thank you. alexpaigeperry Hi we are sorry about this. Please DM us with the order number so we may take a look into this.We await your reply. Thanks. ish Hello we are sorry about this. Please DM us with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. brivas tus comentarios al departamento correspondiente para que nuestro equipo de Jan lo revise con la tienda de Linares. Gracias. brivas Sentimos lo sucedido ya que la experiencia de compra de nuestros clientes es una de nuestras prioridades. Trasladaremos DayhannaAcosta Hi Dayhanna we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into this. Thank you. FCabas Hola Francisco envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care incluyendo el nmero de pedido para que podamos ayudarte. Gracias. KessBess If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. KessBess We kindly request that you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. KessBess Hi we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. ninapaxman We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Its time to play Boys editorial now available online and instores mlnlopez de forma interna lo que nos comentas de La Vaguada y podamos evitar que se repita en el futuro. Gracias. mlnlopez tus comentarios al departamento correspondiente para que nuestro equipo de tiendas revise mlnlopez Sentimos lo sucedido ya que la experiencia de compra de nuestros clientes es una de nuestras prioridades. Trasladaremos venomu Hello we truly sorry about this. Please DM us with further details so we may look into this. We await your reply. Thanks. neskavikinga Hola por favor enva un MD a ZARA Care con ms datos sobre lo sucedido y la ubicacin de la tienda para revisarlo. Gracias. iamankit Hi you may subscribe your details and view our current offers through Thank you. chriscat Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with the order number to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. jessdhaliwal Hi Jess we are glad we were able to meet your expectations and appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks. CraigHawkII Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with the order number so we may assist. We await your reply. Thanks. spnshxsounds Hi thank you for contacting ZARA. Please provide us further details regarding your query so we may assist you. Thanks. LaurenBelfoy we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. LaurenBelfoy Hi Lauren thank you for your query. Please DM us at our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further details so Lukanen Hi Tom we apologize for your experience. Please DM us more details ZARACare so we can look into this. Thanks. JockinJT so we may adequately assist you. Thanks. JockinJT Hi Julie we certainly regret your disappointment. Please forward your query to our Customer Care account at Zaracare GlamNiki Hi Annika we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks gallacher your interest. Thank you. gallacher selected sizes. Alternatively you may visit the New In section of our website where you may find something of gallacher regarding the requested item. We kindly recommend a similar style item ref. which is available online in gallacher Hi Chloe thank you for showing an interest in our products. We can confirm that we do not have further information phtevenm bitten Sie uns in einer DN die Adresse der Filiale bekannt zu geben damit wir den Vorfall intern prfen knnen. Vielen Dank. phtevenm mit dessen Geschlecht sie sich identifiziert fhlen.Wir bedauern sehr dass Ihr Einkaufserlebnis nicht positiv war und phtevenm Hallo vielen Dank fr Ihr Feedback. Wir mchten Ihnen mitteilen dass unsere Kunden die Umkleidekabine whlen knnen gallacher will update you once further details become available. Thank you. gallacher Hi thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your query your to the corresponding department we Its time to play Boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids zaraeditorial amreeennA Hi Amreen please note that we have replied via DM. Thanks. giorgiaxelle Bonjour Axelle indiqueznous votre adresse email par MD notre compte ZARA Care afin que nous puissions vous aider. Merci. EvaChbrf Bonjour Eva pourriezvous nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care Merci. LauraMVisconti Bonjour Laura envoyeznous par MD notre compte ZARA Care le numro de commande afin que nous puissions vous aider. Merci. StellaKatterman dependant on the outcome of the assessment which will be done by a manager. Thank you. StellaKatterman Hello Stella thank you for getting back to us. Please be advised that an exchange or refund is Its time to play Boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids zaraeditorial eatandbefull Thanks for your reply Jared. Please do not hesitate to contact us in case of further queries.We will be happy to help Thanks sirwilliams We kindly ask that you regularly check our website for its replenishment. Thanks. sirwilliams Hi Willy thank you for your interest in our products. Please be advised that currently we do not have rompers available eatandbefull Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks dedado Hola por favor envianos un MD a ZARA Care con ms detalles sobre lo sucedido para que te podamos ayudar. Gracias. StaticGrl Hi RaChelle we have replied via DM. Thanks. mattregan Hi Matthew this truly concerns us. Please DM us more details ZARACare including the date and time of your visit. Thanks. rippesV Hi Gabriela please DM us your order number ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. LBoogie quality standard procedures. Please DM us ZARACare confirming if the original purchase was made instore or online. LBoogie Hi Lauren. We apologize about this since all our products are manufactured according to strict ArgenisLunaH Hola gracias por su inters en ZARA. Por favor envenos un DM a ZARACare para poder asistirle. Gracias. Xorxuno Hola por favor envanos un MD a ZARA Care con ms datos con la fecha y hora aproximada lo revisaremos. Gracias. RoseannaEve comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. RoseannaEve Hi Rosie thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your NachealL Kindly DM us further details so that we can look into this. Thank you. yonseh We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. yonseh Hi Jordan we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. taylahbrimmerx as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. taylahbrimmerx open a store in this area but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback taylahbrimmerx Hi Taylah thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to CMahalin Bonjour merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care afin que nous puissions vous aider. Merci. ShahanazU where you may browse our latest collection and find something of interest. Thank you. ShahanazU and will not be replenished. We kindly suggest that you view our New In section LaurenLKComms pertaining area as our customers feedback is valuable to us. Thank you for your interest in our products. LaurenLKComms Hi Lauren we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have now forwarded your comments to the Teresaserrano aproximada y la tienda de Ceuta que mencionas para que podamos revisarlo Muchas gracias. Teresaserrano Hola Teresa. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con ms detalles de lo ocurrido la hora harrybazley Hi kindly be advised that we do not participate in this kind of collaborations. Thank you for your interest in our brand. rimapasi Hi we would like to advise that the DESTROYED SHIRT ref. is available on our website. We hope this was helpful. Thanks. lindsaykowalsky Hi please send us a DM via ZaraCare with the order number so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. GracePerryx We will forward your feedback to the pertaining area for their consideration. Thank you. GracePerryx Hi please be advised that we do not offer discount codes at the moment but we do not rule this out in future. iamsimmonslaw Hi please be advised that we have replied to your DM. Thanks. inFAMOUSDanie Hi Nina please DM us further details ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. DeadBeat Hi Eric we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. kvlanza Hi Katie please send us a DM via Zaracare with further details. We would like to review them with the pertaining area. Thanks. sincerelystepha Hi Steph we apologize for this. Please feel free to visit our website to review any items of interest availability. Thanks sineadmoya so that we may assist you further. Thank you. sineadmoya We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location emsyg Hi thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account. Thank you. CrissZF Si lo deseas puedes acudir a tienda para que nuestro personal valore la prenda y te pueda aconsejar. Gracias. CrissZF Hola Cris sentimos que esta sea tu impresin. Te informamos de que las medidas pueden variar en funcin del modelo. DianeMcSwinden as this helps us improves our services. Thank you. DianeMcSwinden We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department DianeMcSwinden Hi Diane we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. StellaKatterman where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. StellaKatterman Hi Stella thank you for your response. We kindly suggest that you take the item to store martajimenez estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias. martajimenez condiciones de compra no podemos aceptar devoluciones ni cambios fuera de plazo. Para cualquier futura consulta martajimenez Hola Marta sentimos tu desacuerdo con nuestra poltica de cambios y devoluciones. Como se indica en nuestras Misaelmarti Hello Misael we have replied to your DM. Thank you. CrimeoFashion Hello the item Ref. is not likely to be replenished online. We suggest you check with your local store. Thanks. StellaKatterman If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. StellaKatterman distribution. We kindly request that you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. StellaKatterman Hi Stella we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before TheSmilerThing Hola podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. amreeennA Hi Amreen please be informed that we have now replied to your DM. Thank you. HilpaP Hi we truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details so we may better assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. eddori Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. eddori y puede variar rpidamente. Le sugerimos contactar directamente con la sucursal de su eleccin para mayor informacin. eddori Ver disponibilidad en tienda que encontrar bajo las fotografas del producto. Recuerde que esta informacin es orientativa eddori Sin embargo le recordamos que puede verificar la disponibilidad de algn artculo en tienda a travs de la opcin eddori Hola Edgar. Le informamos que La Bomber tnica Reversible est disponible en la sucursal Zara Plaza Andares. kayleigh Hi Kayleigh this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. NadiaMauro Hi Nadia we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details so we may better assist you. Thanks. Tahoe Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. tiggerbeat Your feedback is much appreciated and will be used for future improvements. Thanks. tiggerbeat Hi Kristen thank you for bringing this to our attention. yasminpeche Para futuras consultas estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. yasminpeche Hola nuestro perfume Black Amber con referencia est actualmente disponible onlline seanamaterasu Hi Sean this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details so we may address this matter. Thanks rimapasi You will be contacted once an update is available. Thanks. rimapasi Thank you for replying Ricardo. Please note that we have forwarded your query to our Product team. ChusBello Hola hemos contestado al MD que nos has enviado. Muchas gracias. YohanaYaiza artculo h laborables. Remite futuras consultas a ZARA Care en Twitter Gracias. YohanaYaiza de Burgos en el o con el Zara de Santiago de Valladolid en el para que puedan reservarte el YohanaYaiza mochila en todas las tiendas que nos has indicado. Te recomendamos que contactes directamente con el Zara de Condestable YohanaYaiza Hola Yohana te indicamos que segn la informacin en nuestro sistema que es orientativa dispones de unidades de la ChusBello con ms informacin y la referencia completa del artculo para que podamos ayudarte Gracias. ChusBello Buenos das. Te pedimos que nos enves en MD a nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente ZARA Care MaameAfibaBessa the pertaining area for their consideration. Thank you. MaameAfibaBessa Hello thank you for your interest in our products. We will most certainly forward your feedback on to Antibor informacin para que poidamos axudarche Moitas grazas. Antibor Ola Por favor envanos unha MD nosa conta de ZARA Care en Twitter con mis YohanaYaiza no se prev su reposicin. Indcanos una tienda Zara cercana a ti para revisar la disponibilidad del artculo. Gracias. YohanaYaiza Hola Yohana nuestra Mochila pauelo con referencia y en color gris se encuentra agotada online y en principio mamifelizysushi estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Muchas gracias. mamifelizysushi Hola te recomendamos visitar nuestra Guia de tallas debajo de la columna de Selecciona talla. Para futuras consultas mirjamvandenbos Gelieve de informatie te verstrekke van de winkel vestiging. zodat wij hier intern naar kunnen kijken. Bedankt mirjamvandenbos Beste Mirjam Gelieve ons een te contacteren via ons klantenservice account Zara Care met een direct message. Tricolor plaited Tote bag. More at mayoluvsmayo Hi Bria we have replied via DM. Thanks. LameesJad Hi as previously advised no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out in the future. Thanks. nnoel Hi Nicole this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we may review this. Thanks. katiecmac Hi Katie please DM us more information ZARACare so we may forward your feedback accordingly. Thanks. eriikacm le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZaraCare. Gracias. eriikacm Hola Charly. En caso de futuras consultas EmmaMcKenna this to the relevant department for their consideration. Thank you for your interest in our brand. EmmaMcKenna Hello Emma thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we appreciate your feedback and will forward DAMINZ or online purchase via our ZaraCare account. If it was an online purchase please provide the order number. Thank you. DAMINZ Hi Damien thanks for bringing this to our attention. Kindly DM us with further details including whether this was an in store slydia contactando con nuestro equipo en el telfono gratuto . Muchas gracias por tu inters en nuestros productos. slydia reposicin en un futuro prximo. Puedes consultar la disponibilidad en tienda slydia Gracias por la respuesta. El artculo con ref. se encuentra agotado en talla y sin previsin de LifeWithLivvv visit so we may address this matter. Thanks. LifeWithLivvv Hi Olivia this truly concerns us. Please DM us further detail including the stores location and datetime of your RussellMBarnes assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. RussellMBarnes Hi Russell we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details including the stores location so we may ewindsor Hi Ellie we apologise for this. Please DM us the reference number of the item so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. LameesJad For future queries please contact our customer service account ZaraCare. Thanks for your interest in Zara. LameesJad Hi no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out in the future. Chanakoh Hi Chana please send us a DM via our ZaraCare account with further details. We will be glad to look into this. Thanks. mayoluvsmayo Hi Bria hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM to ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. Thanks. lolaroma Hi Melanie please send a DM to ZaraCare with further details. We will gladly look into this with the pertaining area. Thanks. melbombel is associated with an instore or online purchase. if online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. melbombel Hi Melanie we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us further details including whether the refund AgentHarding please do not hesitate to contact us back. Thank you. AgentHarding Hi Andrea thank you for your response. Should you require further assistance tiggerbeat Hi Kristen please send us a DM with further details. We would like to review them with the pertaining area. Thanks. princessbrit forwarded your comments and feedback to the relevant team for review. Thanks. princessbrit Hi thanks for getting back to us. Please accept our sincerest apologies for this. As previously advised we have for CatchYourBeth Hi Beth thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account. Thank you. NyaMphande comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. NyaMphande Hi Tia we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We can confirm that we have forwarded your ggeorginaE Hola Georgina envanos ms detalles por MD incluyendo el nmero de pedido a ZARA Care para que podamos ayudarte. Gracias. PieroBianco Quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care en Twitter Gracias. PieroBianco Puedes ver la Camisa palmeras con referencia que esperamos sea de tu agrado PieroBianco Te informamos de que la camisa que buscas est completamente agotada en todas las tallas en la tienda facilitada Piero. AdictaAinditex en Twitter para que podamos ayudarte adecuadamente Muchas gracias. AdictaAinditex Hola nos preocupa lo que comentas. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care AgentHarding accessed via the following link Thank you. AgentHarding Hi Andrea thank you for interest in our products. We can confirm that item ref. may be gemmaroderick as it helps us to improve our services. Thank you. gemmaroderick Hi Gemma we are sorry to hear this. Kindly be advised that your comments have been forwarded to the pertaining area PieroBianco Gracias por tu respuesta Piero. Por favor confrmanos la talla deseada para que podamos revisarlo. Buenos das. CatchYourBeth If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. CatchYourBeth We kindly request that you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. CatchYourBeth Hi Beth we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. JenniferNoir accessed via the following link Thank you. JenniferNoir Hi thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that item ref. may be slydia Hola te pedimos que nos confirmes la talla que buscas para que podamos ayudarte adecuadamente. Gracias. euromaurox Hola Mauricio podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. PieroBianco no se prev su reposicin. Indcanos un Zara cercano a tu localidad para revisar la disponibilidad en tienda. Gracias. PieroBianco Hola Piero. Te informamos de que la Camisa bowling palmeras con referencia est agotada y en principio rimapasi Hello please confirm the country where you are contacting us from so that we can help. Thanks. WhealLucy so that we may assist you further. Thank you. WhealLucy Hi Lucy thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number Vinyl high heel sandals for this Summer eriikacm echarle un vistazo a su caso. Gracias. eriikacm Hola Charly. Lamentamos escuchar esto. Envenos por favor ms detalles por MD para que podamos rrabiit Hi Rachaelle we have replied to your DM. Thanks. princessbrit the case managed internally. We reiterate our apologies for any inconvenience caused. Thanks. princessbrit Hi we truly regret your disappointment. Rest assured your comments will be given their due consideration and haneenmuhyeddin Hi Haneen thanks for your feedback. We will share it with the pertaining areas so it can be taken in consideration. Thanks koolkb at the same time so our stock can quickly be sold out. We hope this helps. Thank you. koolkb this item will be available again. Please take in consideration that all of our customers receive this alert koolkb Hi Krista thanks for your message. We recommend that you subscribe to our coming soon option so you may get an alert once DPortno you are getting so we may take a look into this. Thank you. DPortno Hi David. We are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us a screenshot of the error Gteamjds Hi thanks for your interest in Zara.Regarding your query you may contact this store at . We hope this helps. Thanks. christelgarbino Bonjour Christelle merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. Marigomezs Hola Maribel. Gracias por su mensaje. No dude en contactarnos a travs de Zara Care en caso de futuras consultas. Gracias. ABrookeCo Hi Ashley please DM us your order number ZARACare so that we may assist you further. Thanks. LadyHipp Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us more information ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. MojdehCroes Hi we are sorry about this. Please send us a DM with the order number so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. MonaJalal Hi we are sorry about this. Please send us a DM with the order number so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. ashnam Hi we apologize for any inconvenience. Please send us a DM with further details to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. waed You will receive information about upcoming promotions campaigns and the latest trends. Thank you. waed Hello thanks for your interest in our products. Our recommendation is that you subscribe to our Newsletter sushiandpeanut may subscribe to our newsletter and to check our website for further updates. Thanks for your interest in our brand. sushiandpeanut Hi Jen please be advised that we are unable to specify any date for our sale period. We kindly suggest that you afropuff forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. afropuff Hi we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly judyiromano Hi Judy please DM us more details regarding your query ZARACare so we may better assist. Thanks. RichHomieGuac Please DM us your order number ZARACare so we may further assist. Thanks. RichHomieGuac Hi we are truly sorry to learn this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. chloeevonne Hi Chloe we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. KatieLoular We apologise for the inconvenience. Thank you. KatieLoular we are unable to accommodate exchangesreturns without the corresponding receipt. KatieLoular Hi Katie we certainly regret any distress caused. However as our Terms of Purchase clearly state MattSolyst or its reference number ZARACare. Thanks. MattSolyst Hi Matt. If you would like to know the availability of an item we kindly ask you to DM us a picture iveerozo in which you are trying to place your purchase so we may further assist Thanks. iveerozo Hi Johanna please send us a DM to our ZARA Care Twitter account confirming the country JenniferJChung inquires feel free to contact us through our customer service Facebook account ZARA Care. Thank you. JenniferJChung Hi Jennifer we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Your encouraging feedback is appreciated. For future katherinelock Hi Katherine please be advised that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. brainsanddogs Hi Michelle we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. ouimonique Hi your feedback is much appreciated. Thank you for being a valued customer. chloeevonne Hi Chloe we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. brainsanddogs If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. brainsanddogs distribution. We kindly request that you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. brainsanddogs Hi Michelle we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before ClaireBates so that we may assist you further. Thank you. ClaireBates Hi Claire we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number LucyClemson relevant department in order to prevent misunderstandings in the future. Thanks. LucyClemson attention that the description may be confusing. We have forwarded your comments to the LucyClemson Hi Lucy we confirm that the case is made of fauxleather. However we would like to thank you for bringing to our LucyClemson we kindly ask you to DM us your contact details email and phone number through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. LucyClemson Hi Lucy thank you for getting back to us. As we would like to clarify any further doubts you may have directly with you mssgc Hi please be advised that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. temalba desde la fecha de compra reflejada en el ticket de acuerdo con nuestras condiciones de compra. Sentimos las molestias. temalba Hola sentimos confirmarte que no podemos aceptar ningn cambio o devolucin una vez transcurrido el plazo de un mes Albertoarchibal y recomendamos contactar directamente con la tienda para confirmarlo. Muchas gracias. Albertoarchibal Hola Alberto sentimos las molestias. Como indicamos en nuestra pgina web el stock de tienda es siempre orientativo fransmithdaye We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. fransmithdaye Hi Francesca we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. chloeevonne so that we may assist you further. Thank you. chloeevonne Hi Chloe thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us your order number BeckieGreen so that we may assist you further. Thank you. BeckieGreen Hi Beckie we are sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly DM us more details mssgc Hello we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Ready for the weekend Check accessories at MusaDeCobain Hola envanos por favor ms detalles por MD a ZARA Care incluyendo tambin el nmero de referencia del artculo. Gracias. Upcycled fabrics Recycled polyester is made from recovered plastic bottles joinlife Sustainable collection Noakoby Hi Robin please send us a DM via our ZaraCare account for further assistance. We look forward to assisting you. Thanks. LucyClemson the Zen Garden perfume comes with a fauxleather case. Thank you for the interest shown in our brand. LucyClemson in the following link to the companys Animal Welfare policies We would also like to point out LucyClemson Hi Lucy be kindly advised Zara applies responsible production standards for all products of animal origin as you can see sabrinagroomes Hi Sabrian were sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. TaySapRocky Hi Tay please DM us ZARACare with more details so we may further assist you. Thanks. MsBHappy Hi BrandiRenee this really concerns us. Please send us a DM to our ZaraCare account with further details. Thanks. AlicoMiami Hi this really concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details. Thanks. EleanorSalloway We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. EleanorSalloway to the relevant department in order to implement any necessary improvements. EleanorSalloway Hi Eleanor we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. We have passed your feedback lyndsayuk for further updates. Thank you for your interest in our products. lyndsayuk only in size L. As we are unable to specify a date we kindly suggest that you regularly check our website lyndsayuk Hi Lyndsay please be advised the item ref. is currently sold out in sizes L and XL and it will be replenished MarchingPencils our latest collection and find something of interest. We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. MarchingPencils size S or other sizes. We kindly suggest to see our New In section where you may browse MarchingPencils Hello thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that this item ref. will not be replenished online is solharrison relevant department for their consideration. Thank you. solharrison location but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your suggestion to the solharrison Hello Sol thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this Sustainable raw materials Recycled cotton is made from residue collected from the cutting processes joinlife lauraakalettie Hi Lettie thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account. Thank you. kirstybas request that you DM us further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. kirstybas Hi Kirsty we are sorry to hear this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We kindly agualuisc em que loja e quando sucedeu para que possamos ajudarlhe. Obrigado. agualuisc Ol lamentamos o incmodo causado. Indiquenos por favor numa MD a ZARA Care lauraakalettie including your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. lauraakalettie Hi Lettie we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us further details of your query Sustainable collection A selection of the best sustainable raw materials and processes joinlife zaraman staceyrainville kindly confirm the order number via DM to our ZARA Care account so we can further assist. Thank you staceyrainville Hi we are sorry to hear this since all of our products undergo strict quality control procedures before distribution amynicolaox Hi Amy when sending the DM please use our ZaraCare account for assistance. Thanks. amynicolaox Hi Amy hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. inkapow Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. inkapow Hola. Nos gustara informarle que el artculo con referencia se encuentra disponible en lnea. clauithzel Esperamos que esta informacin le resulte til. Gracias. clauithzel puede acercarse directamente a la sucursal para solicitar la factura presentando el ticket de la compra. clauithzel Gracias por su respuesta. Le informamos de que al tratarse de una compra en tienda LElsendoorn te sturen met uw ordernummer bijgevoegd maar ons Zara care klantenservice account. Bedankt. LElsendoorn de maand retoursperiodezolang de items nog in originele staat zijn. Voor meer informatie gelieve ons een privbericht LElsendoorn Hallo Lindsey graag willen wij u informeren dat al onze klanten probleemloos zijnhaar artikelen kan omruilen binnen yayaxtonye Thank you for replying Tony. Please send us a DM at our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. michskis Hi Michelle we apologize for any discomfort caused. Please DM us more information ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. What does fashion mean to you Young and resolute. TRF editorial zaratrf zaraeditorial kolevanmaarion visit so we may address this matter. We await your reply. Thanks. kolevanmaarion Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details including the stores location and datetime of melbamesha promotions campaigns and the latest trends. For future queries please contact us ZaraCare. Thanks. melbamesha Hi Melba please subscribe to our Newsletter You will receive information about upcoming sirineyounes Hi Sirine please DM us further details ZARACare so we may adequately assist you. Thanks. yayaxtonye Hi Tony were truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. saskia via this platform we kindly suggest you contact one of our stores to confirm availability. Thanks. saskia Hi Saskia we are sorry to inform you that the desired item is sold out online. As we are unable to check store stock larawanderlust Hola Lara envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para poder revisarlo. Gracias. kimorablac Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks JessicaBhigham Hi Jessica please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. hcd Hi Helen we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks iolloqui de perfil de nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care. Esperamos que esta informacin sea de utilidad. Gracias. iolloqui Hola puedes enviarnos un MD pinchando en el icono de mensaje que encontrars debajo de nuestra foto SteJags via our Customer care account Thank you. iolloqui Hola Isabel por favor confrmanos tu nmero de pedido para que podamos revisar tu caso. Gracias. jeannedieIman Hi please send the DM via our ZaraCare account for further assistance. Thanks. jeannedieIman Please DM us your order number so we can assist you with your request. Thanks. jeannedieIman Hi as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details in public. missdjmitchell notification when the item becomes available within the next two weeks. Thank you for your interest in our products. missdjmitchell are unable to precise a date. You may subscribe to our email me when available option so that you may get a missdjmitchell Hi Donna kindly be advised that the item ref. will be replenished in the requested size online although we StarringLT Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. We await your reply. Thanks. SteJags Hi Steven we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. clauithzel Si se trata de una compra en lnea envenos su nmero de pedido. Gracias. clauithzel Hola. Le pedimos por favor que nos enve un mensaje directo indicando si se trata de una compra en tienda u online. smartnstoned Hi Solange we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us more information ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. aislingjdavis to the pertaining area for further consideration. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your valuable feedback. aislingjdavis Hi Aisling we are sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly be advised that we have forwarded your comments GetNAEked Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. marissavlaming Hi Marissa no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in ZARA. mirelamustata we recommend our customers not to publish personal or order details in public. Thanks. mirelamustata Hi Mirela your feedback is much appreciated. However as a precautionary measure RusmarisN Just tap on the envelope icon on your Twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks RusmarisN Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. DjRuscus Hola. Por favor envanos un MD a ZARA Care con ms detalle sobre lo sucedido y en qu fecha para poder ayudarte. Gracias. BriseydeeSalas Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Muchas gracias BriseydeeSalas a la sucursal ms cercana donde con gusto valorarn el artculo y le ofrecern una solucin pertinente. BriseydeeSalas Hola Julieta. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Al tratarse de una compra en tienda le pedimos por favor se dirija KevinForestell Hi Kevin to further assist kindly DM us more details including your order number through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. superedguito Muchas gracias por su inters en nuestra marca. superedguito sin duda alguna nos ayudan a mejorar en el servicio que facilitamos a nuestros clientes. superedguito Hola Edgar. Le agradecemos que nos haya hecho llegar su parecer. Por supuesto valoramos sus comentarios que holasoymemito Hola lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles de su experiencia. Gracias. raddude Hi David please DM us more details to our Customer Service account ZARA Care so we may further assist. Thank you. TouriaEng Hi please note we have already replied to your DM. Thanks. diff Hi please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. Summer holidays One day at the swimming pool zarakids Sheyserr con ms detalles sobre lo ocurrido para poder revisarlo. Gracias. Sheyserr Hola Sheyla lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado StephanieAlca Hi Stephanie we are sorry to hear about this. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may look into it. Thanks. isthatstefania Ciao inviaci per favore pi dettagli tramite MD al nostro account di assistenza al cliente ZARA Care. Grazie. GordonElliot Hi Gordon thank you for your response. We kindly request that you DM us via our Zara Care account. Thank you. JohnnyR We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. JohnnyR we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. JohnnyR Hi Johnny we are sorry to hear this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We can confirm that GordonElliot We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. GordonElliot Hi Gordon we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. chestnuthell Hi Janice please DM us further details ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. MLHayden so that we may assist you further. Thank you. MLHayden We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location MLHayden Hi Meaghan we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. TyToo Hi Ty we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. Sennendiaz Hola. Lo sentimos pero el pantaln que nos indicas ya no est disponible a la venta. Gracias. RachelleYadegar Hi Rachelle we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your proof of purchase. Thanks. RusmarisN Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us more details so we may further assist you. Thanks. TimShaffer Hi Tim we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details including the time of your visit so we may better assist you. Thanks. PaulineAudric Merci nous avons rpondu votre MD. Bonne journe. diff Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. dcornelle Hi Dunbar this truly concerns us. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your proof purchase. Thanks. lecksicon Hi Kate to further assist kindly DM us more details. Thanks. MusicalExpress as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. MusicalExpress in this area but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback MusicalExpress Hi thank you for your query. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open a store GraceDuggan certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. GraceDuggan Hi Grace we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most FillyOfficial Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. PatriciaSobue Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us your inquiry so we may better assist you. Thanks. LucyTippins exceeded the returns period as stated in our terms and conditions. Thank you. LucyTippins Hi Lucy thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we are unable to accommodate refundsexchanges that have lisaronii Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your proof of purchase. Thanks. fabianwilliams Hi Fabian to further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry including your country of purchase. Thanks. muhanado Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks roydenpereira numbers publicly. Kindly DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. bonoviso Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. FillyOfficial If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. FillyOfficial We kindly request that you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. FillyOfficial Hi we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. Summer holidays Kids editorial zarakids zaraeditorial HannahY We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. HannahY confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. HannahY Hi Hannah we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We can awkwardhughope The fitting rooms names are linked to the sections they are in. Thank you for your message. awkwardhughope Hi Hope please note our customers may choose to use the fitting room in which they identify with. Sennendiaz Hola. Hemos trasladado tu consulta al departamento correspondiente y en breve te daremos ms informacin. Gracias. haughtonadrian Please DM us so that we may provide you with further information. Thank you. SarahElizaJ this item was purchased online or instore. If online then please provide us with your order number. Thank you. TanjaTriebigerT Hi Tanja please confirm the country of purchase so we can inform you accordingly. Thank you. Jograce advised that you can check store opening times through the Zara App. Thank you. Jograce Hi Joanna we would like to inform you that the store opening time for today is from am to pm. Please be mrosavs si se trata de una compra online o en una de nuestras tiendas. Esperamos tu respuesta. Gracias. mrosavs Hola Mara Rosa. Sentimos mucho lo ocurrido. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care confirmando TouriaEng Hi Touria your comments concern us. Please send us a DM via ZARA Care with further details for us to review. Thank you. raphaellemvr Nous transmettrons vos commentaires au service concern afin de pouvoir amliorer notre service sur place. Merci. raphaellemvr Bonjour Raphalle nous sommes dsols que votre exprience dachat dans notre magasin nait pas t positive. PaulineAudric Bonjour pourriezvous nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care Merci. GVBarbudo a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care para que podamos revisarlo inmediatamente. Gracias. GVBarbudo Sentimos escuchar esto Gonzalo. Por favor envanos un MD con ms datos sobre lo sucedido JohanBruggeman Care so we can review this matter with the relevant department. Thank you. JohanBruggeman concerns. Please send us a private message with the store location and more details to our customer care account ZARA JohanBruggeman Hello Johan we are truly sorry to hear this as a positive shopping experience for our customers is one of our main xaihasnor Hi we are sorry to hear about your disappointment. Please DM us further details to be able to assist. Thank you HeyThereItsBec so that we can look into this. Thank you. rosajones Hello Rosa thank you for your response. We can confirm that we are awaiting the requested information. Thank you. ahujalatika the following link or contact our head office in India . Thanks. ahujalatika do not rule this possibility out in the future. You may forward your query through ahujalatika Hi thank you for your message. Please note this service is not available for India yet though we MikeDesai the following link or contact our head office in India . Thanks. MikeDesai do not rule this possibility out in the future. You may forward your query through MikeDesai Hi thank you for your message. Please note this service is not available for India yet though we BriseydeeSalas Hola Julieta. Por favor confrmanos el pas de compra para que podamos revisar tu caso. Gracias. Summer holidays Kids editorial. Enjoy at the swimming pool zarakids zaraeditorial oliveramaya Hi Oliver we are sorry to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. Bfroehlich Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks barrabe Bonsoir Patrick pouvezvous sil vous plat nous indiquer quel magasin vous faites rfrence Merci. itchellemata Hi thanks for your reply. To further assist kindly DM us more details including a proof of purchase. Thanks. lucylove Hi Jazmyne we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your order nymber. Thanks. VPamio Ciao Veronica ti informiamo che abbiamo avvisato i nostri colleghi che si metteranno in contatto con te al pi presto. Grazie. babyams Hi Amy we apologize for your experience. To further assist kindly DM us further details though our ZARA Care account. Thanks. belllachay We kindly suggest you check the New In section for any new items that may be similar to the one of your interest. Thanks. belllachay Hi Pat thank you for your interest in our products. Please be advised that the item is no longer available for purchase. princessbrit please do not hesitate to contact us. Thanks. princessbrit Hi thank you for your interest in our products. If you require further assistance itchellemata Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your proof of purchase. Thanks. JackieWolansky Hi Jackie this truly concerns us. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to better assist you. Thanks. mgentilcore Hi Monica we regret to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry Thanks. NickiStern Kindly DM us more information so we may further assist you. Thanks. NickiStern Hi Nicky we kindly ask you to delete this picture as it includes third parties without their authorization. RabbitIsLove so you may receive updates about upcoming promotions and latest trends. We hope this helps. Thanks. RabbitIsLove Hi thanks for your interest. We recommend subscribing to your Newsletter steffsta Hi thank you for contacting us. We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. fatimavdw Bonjour merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD et de nous indiquer notamment le magasin en question. Merci. Guns n Roses overshirt TRF zaratrf princessbrit Hi please be advised that we do not offer the service mentioned at the moment. Thank you for your interest in our brand. filthycutexo Just tap on the envelope icon on your Twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks filthycutexo Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. soytikis a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. soytikis Esperamos que esta informacin haya sido til. Para cualquier otra duda contctenos soytikis pertenece a la temporada pasada. Sin embargo como alternativa le sugerimos la Falda Pantaln Hebilla con ref . soytikis Hola. Le informamos de que el artculo por el que se interesa no est disponible en lnea por que filthycutexo Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your order number. Thanks. ItsTiaRenee Hi Tiara thanks for your interest in our brand. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. veroonika con ms detalles de lo sucedido para poderle asistir. Gracias. veroonika Hola Veronika. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo Color block collection now available online and instores zaraman DeepiTripathi We await your reply. Thanks. DeepiTripathi Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. soytikis En cuanto tengamos informacin al respecto nos pondremos en contacto con usted. Gracias. Cazuir a tu tienda Zara ms cercana donde nuestro personal revisar las prendas y estarn encantados de ayudarte. Gracias. Cazuir mismas. De todos modos si consideras que los pantalones presentan algn defecto en su fabricacin te sugerimos que acudas soytikis Hola. Hemos trasladado su consulta de producto al departamento correspondiente. Cazuir Hola. Las tallas de nuestras prendas pueden variar ligeramente dependiendo de la composicin el corte y el diseo de las lisatiarasheels Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks ericohenr Hi Erica we apologize for your experience. Please DM us your order number ZARACare so we may assist you. Thanks. meauxdub visit to the store. We await your reply. Thanks. meauxdub Hi Maureen this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details including the stores location and date and time of your gigioconnell For future queries please feel free to contact our Zaracare account. Thanks. gigioconnell check the New In section for any items that may be similar to the one of your interest. gigioconnell Hi Gigi we inform you item is sold out with no immediate replenishment at this time. We kindly suggest you JPoNYC Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks Color block collection now available online and instores zaraman Sennendiaz de la web por si hubiese algn otro artculo de tu inters. Gracias. Sennendiaz Hola. Sentimos comunicarte que no es posible el envo de artculo entre tiendas. Te sugerimos que revises las novedades IheartJessieJet available in the requested colour. We apologise for the inconvenience caused. Thank you. IheartJessieJet Hi Jessie thank you for your product query. Please be advised that item is not Sennendiaz que revisemos la disponibilidad en tienda indcanos una tienda cercana a tu domicilio. Gracias. Sennendiaz Hola. El Mono dark ref. est agotado en la web y en principio no est prevista su reposicin. Si deseas CollinsDeirdre as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. CollinsDeirdre Hello thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that this has been forwarded to the relevant department MissSasha which you are contacting us to our ZARA Care account so we may further assist. Thanks. MissSasha Hello Sasha. Please send us a DM with further details and confirming the country from Color block collection now available online and instores zaraman mchios Hi Marie thanks for your reply. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. makisunshine los datos de contacto de nuestras sucursales. Esperamos que esta informacin le resulte til. Gracias. makisunshine Hola Maki. Le invitamos a utilizar nuestro Localizador De Tiendas donde podr encontrar Noakoby Hi Robin this truly concerns us. Kindly DM us more details including the time of your visit to further assist you. Thanks. mchios Thank you for replying Marie. Please confirm which country you are contacting us from. Thanks. iklelily Hello Lilly we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further information so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. That beach feeling New Woman editorial. Beach drive zarawoman zaraeditorial pichifluchito de perfil de ZARA Care. Esperamos que esta informacin sea de utilidad. Gracias. pichifluchito Hola. Puedes enviarnos un MD pinchando en el icono de mensaje que encontrars debajo de nuestra foto Tizzykaur corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. Tizzykaur Hi Tara thank you for your response. We can confirm that all your comments have been forwarded to the GreenEyezIam Hi Please DM us further details at ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. areebbaaa Hi please DM us an image of the pants or their reference number ZARACare so we may further assist you. Thanks. emsyg We kindly request that you DM us further details including your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. emsyg Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Tizzykaur We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. Tizzykaur confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Tizzykaur Hi Tara we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We can Masterpeacefull Hi Nicole no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara YASjaz If you have any further queries please contact us via our ZaraCare account. Thank you. YASjaz Hi Jasmine we inform you that item ref is not scheduled for replenishment in any size. We are sorry about this. Thanks. JadeKardashian via the following link Thank you. JadeKardashian Hello Jade thank you for getting back to us. Please kindly see the coming soon section mchios Hi Marie thanks for contacting ZARA. Please advise if this was an in store or online purchase. We await your reply. Thanks. AlinaNovorok account at Zaracare. Thanks. AlinaNovorok Hi Alina please note you may express your concerns or provide any query on this platform at our Customer Care Dilaia Hola. Si nos confirmas la referencia del bolso en el que ests interesada te daremos informacin sobre su disponibilidad. Gracias. JadeKardashian may receive the latest notifications on this. We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. JadeKardashian online but will be replenished in the near future. We kindly suggest to use our coming soon option so that you JadeKardashian Hello Jade thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that this item ref. is currently out of stock Sennendiaz Hola. El pantaln no est disponible y no est prevista su reposicin ni en tienda ni a travs de la web. Gracias. amyfink online purchase. If it was an online purchase please provide the order number. Thanks. amyfink Hi Amy kindly DM us via our ZaraCare account with further details including whether this was an in store or Next destination the beach Woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial MariaTe Hola Maria Teresa. Podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Gracias. Lets drive to the beach Woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial carbenf al que se refiere para poder asistirle. Gracias. carbenf Hola. Le pedimos por favor nos enve una foto o el nmero de referencia del artculo ninetydayfiance ask you to contact our store support team on for further assistance. Thank you. ninetydayfiance Hello please be advised that we are unable to provide store stock information via this platform. We kindly arwise Hi Ash we inform you that item ref is a Printed Kimono and will be available soon. We hope this helps. Thanks. amyfink Hi Amy thanks for contacting us. We recommend that you cut the plastic zip tie to remove the item. We hope this helps. Thank you. uprvwr Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks melimarquezv Hi Morritos hearing this truly concerns us. Please send a DM to ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. Thanks. bthhh ref. . We hope that this information has been useful to you. Thank you. bthhh Hi Beth we apologise for the miscommunication. We can confirm that the desired item is currently available online under Aznanni Hi Anita as a precaution we advise our customers not to publish order details in public. Thank you. Lauryx Si deseas que revisemos la disponibilidad en tienda indcanos una tienda Zara cercana y la talla deseada. Gracias. Lauryx Hola Laura. La informacin que te hemos facilitado se corresponde con la posible reposicin del body en nuestra web. bthhh through We hope that this information has been useful to you. Thank you. bthhh Hi Beth thank you for your product query. We can confirm that the desired item is currently available online cacamarrafon Hello Clareana please contact our Customer Care on so they can assit you further. Thanks. kalihh Bonjour nous vous remercions pour votre suggestion qui sera transmise au service concern. Bonne journe. Lauryx contctanos a nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente en Twitter de ZARA Care Gracias. Lauryx Te recomendamos que visites nuestra web asiduamente para estar informada. Para futuras consultas Lauryx Hola Lau. Te indicamos que es posible que el Body estampado ref. se reponga en una semana. ninetydayfiance where you may find a similar item. Thank you. ninetydayfiance most sizes and will be not replenished online. We kindly advise you to regularly check our New In section ninetydayfiance Hi thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is now out of stock in silviagm de ZARA Care indicando la tienda concreta para que podamos revisarlo Muchas gracias. silviagm Hola Silvia. Sentimos tu descontento. Por favor envanos un MD con ms datos a nuestra cuenta MissAnitaMITV certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. MissAnitaMITV Hi Anita we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most jerjaa please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. jerjaa We kindly ask you to confirm whether the item was purchased instore or online. If online jerjaa Hi Georgia we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through strict quality controls. fsumollz Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. ThePlayerDG Hi Bruce we are sorry to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us more details. Thanks. BeelAlvarez Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. BeelAlvarez Hola Bel. Le pedimos por favor nos enve una foto del artculo o el nmero de referencia para poderle asistir. pichifluchito Hola. Por favor envanos un DM a ZARA Care con ms datos como la ubicacin de la tienda para que podamos ayudar. Gracias. ImperfectLola Hi please DM us ZARACare with your order number so we may further assist you. Thanks. ValerieDelariva However your suggestion will be forwarded to our corresponding team. Thanks. ValerieDelariva we suggest using the Size Guide. This link is located at the bottom of the size options for each item. ValerieDelariva Hi Valerie we appreciate your feedback. To best determine the correct fit or size of any article on our website Hautegrits Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details including your order number. Thanks. bernaldaalba ayudan a mejorar. Gracias por tomarte enviarnos este mensaje. Quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care. bernaldaalba de calidad. Trasladaremos tus comentarios al departamento correspondiente para que se tengan en cuenta puesto que nos bernaldaalba Hola. Sentimos que sta haya sido tu experiencia de compra ya que la poltica de Zara es ofrecer al cliente un servicio Stripes from top to bottom Blue shades new editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial laurenlucy link Please note that our email service is no longer in use. We hope this helps. Thank you. laurenlucy Hi Lauren thank you for contacting us. Kindly be advised that this information can be found on the following themarkysmark or promotional events. Thanks. themarkysmark Hi Trina thanks for your reply. Please note that ZARA currently does not participate in this kind of collaborations JadeEshete Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks miriamlgonzalez as well as your contact details phone number and email address. We will gladly look into this. Thank you. miriamlgonzalez Hi Miriam we are truly sorry about that. Please send us a DM via ZARA Care in Twiitter with further information mmmeganDEPP Zara branch where our staff will gladly assess the trouser and advise you accordingly. Thanks. mmmeganDEPP Hi Meg we apologize for the inconveniences. Our items follow strict quality controls. Please visit your nearest EleanorRJL following link Thank you for your interest in our products. EleanorRJL helps us to improve our services. Please note that the item ref. is available online and can be found on the EleanorRJL Hi Ellie we truly appreciate such positive feedback. We have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as this MovingLightEnt Hi Emily to better assist you kindly DM us more details confirming your country of purchase. Thanks. Stripes are everywhere Blue shades zarawoman zaraeditorial themarkysmark Please do not hesitate to contact us back through our ZARA Care account if you have any further queries. Thanks. themarkysmark Hi Trina thanks for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. doodiee Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks SoulSoldSeprtly Hi Daniel thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. LaDoceVita Hi Belle to better assist you kindly DM us your order number confirming your country of purchase. Thanks. thekellynicole Hi Kelly thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your request. Thanks. CallMeChinnyyy Hi to further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry so we may look into it. Thanks. alici Gracias a t por tu mensaje. Para futuras consultas no dudes en enviarnos un mensaje a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care. Gracias amandaposadzki Hi Amanda this really concerns us. Please DM us ZARACare with further details so we may look into this. Thanks. CanadiansGuide Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details ZARACare so we may look into this. Thanks. mischasmiles Hi Mischa please DM us ZARACare with a picture of the leggings or its reference number so we may assist you. Thanks. missmoorestyle In case of future queries do not hesitate to contact us ZARACare. Thanks. missmoorestyle Hi Jessica thank you for your interest in our brand. AdamMatalon Hi Adam we are sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM at Zaracare with further details so we may assist you. Thanks. ChloePaez Hi Chloe we are truly sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM at Zaracare with further details so we may assist you. Thanks. Blue shades for stripes New woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial CrisFenoy sern trasladados al departamento correspondiente para que sean tenidos en cuenta. Muchas gracias por contactar con ZARA. CrisFenoy Hola. Te agradecemos que te hayas tomado el tiempo de compartir tus comentarios pues nos ayudan a mejorar. Sin duda immevanmilo Bij voorbaat dank voor uw medewerking. immevanmilo Gelieve ons meer informatie te verschaffen in een priv bericht naar Zara Care zodat wij dit kunnen beoordelen. immevanmilo Beste Imme onze oprechte excuses voor deze vervelende ervaring. De tevredenheid van onze klant staat voorop. Laurina cuenta de Twitter ZARA Care para que podamos ayudarte Muchas gracias. Laurina Hola Laura. Sentimos tu malestar. Por favor envanos ms datos a travs de un MD a nuestra MissLottieee area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your valuable feedback. MissLottieee Hi Lottie we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have forwarded your comments to the pertaining johnbsalom Hello please be advised that the item is not available at the moment. We suggest a similar alternative such as . Thanks MotinMotus Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne et nous transmettrons vos remarques au service concern. Bonne journe. Maitebcy Nous transmettrons cependant vos commentaires au dpartement correspondant pour de futures amliorations. Merci. Maitebcy Bonjour nous offrons un large choix de tailles de la XS la XXL afin de rpondre la demande de nos clients. Conditions. We hope that this information has been useful to you. Thank you. of the purchase date with the pertaining receipt. This information is stated in our Terms and Hi Kevin thank you for contacting us. Please be advised thatexchanges and refunds may only be processed within days Jodivolkers met de desbetreffende afdeling. Bij voorbaat dank voor uw medewerking. Jodivolkers of bestelgegevens publiceren in het openbaar. Gelieve ons een priv bericht te sturen Zara Care zodat wij dit kunnen Jodivolkers Beste Jodi wij willen u informeren dat wij als voorzorgmaatregel adviseren dat onze klanten geen persoonlijke gegeven jordiboadella de la foto a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care en Twitter para que podamos ayudarte. Gracias. jordiboadella Hola Jordi. Por favor envanos un MD con ms informacin y la referencia de los dos artculos philosophyofCK corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. philosophyofCK Hi thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the vanelo a nuestra cuenta de Twitter ZARA Care para que podamos ayudarte. Gracias. vanelo Hola Vanne. Por favor envanos ms datos por MD confirmando la tienda a la que acudiste xebaxtopol Para cualquier otra consulta estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care Gracias. xebaxtopol Agradecemos mucho tus comentarios y los trasladaremos al departamento correspondiente para que sean tenidos en cuenta. xebaxtopol Hola sentimos escuchar esto ya que para nosotros la atencin que prestamos a nuestros clientes es de vital importancia. andersfehon hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your comments. andersfehon feedback to the pertaining area and to the Bristol branch itself in order to implement any necessary improvements. We andersfehon Hi Anders we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. We have now forwarded your ThrasherHollie necessary improvements. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. ThrasherHollie forwarded your comments to the pertaining area and to the Canary Wharf branch itself in order to implement any ThrasherHollie Hi Hollie we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. We can confirm that we have jarinacabana We appreciate your cooperation and understanding. Thank you for contacting ZARA jarinacabana We would like to inform you that our fitting room has been separated by genders due to privacy and safety reasons jarinacabana Hello thank you for your interest in Zara. santibragulat Indcanos la tienda en cuestin que has visitado para que podamos revisar tu caso. Muchas gracias. santibragulat Hola Santi. Sentimos que sta sea tu percepcin. Envanos por favor un MD a ZARA Care en Twitter con ms datos. Klougitch message prive a ZARA Care Twitter avec plus de dtails Merci. Klougitch Bonjour nous regrettons que votre exprience dachat nait pas t positive. Pouvezvous sil vous plat nous envoyer un MarineTerner et prenons en compte votre avis afin damliorer notre service. Merci. MarineTerner Bonjour vos remarques seront transmises au dpartement correspondant. Nous nous excusons de la gne occasionne HcheeH so that we may assist you further. Thank you. HcheeH Hi we are sorry to hear this. As previously advised we kindly ask you to DM us your order number MsJaneeX Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM with further details so we may look into this. We await your reply. Thanks. RyanWard Just tap on the envelope icon on your twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks RyanWard Hi Ryan please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. HcheeH so that we may assist you further. Thank you. HcheeH Hi Hayley we are sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly DM us with your query Tarrafeta Hola Carmen. Sentimos tu descontento. Envanos por favor un MD con ms datos a ZARA Care en Twitter. Muchas gracias. plujadetardor Hola. Envins un missatge privat a ZARA Care amb ms informaci per poder revisar el teu cas. Grcies. aishasalim where you may browse our latest collection and find something of interest. Thank you. aishasalim out online and will not be replenished. We kindly suggest that you view our New In section aishasalim Hello Aisha thank you for providing us with the requested infromation. Please be advised that item is sold raquelro As advised send us a DM to our ZARA Care Account on Twitter Thanks. raquelro Hello Raquel for your own protection we suggest you delete the reply with the order number. raquelro ZARA Care Account on Twitter so we may further assist. Thanks. raquelro Hello Raquel please send us a DM with more details and your order number to our angiesilvat pues no participamos en este tipo de eventos. Gracias por su comprensin. angiesilvat Hola Angie. Tal y como le informamos con anterioridad esta promocin no est relacionada con nuestra marca WBarnett Hi Will we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us your order number. Thanks. RyanWard Hi Ryan thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us your order number. Thanks. aishasalim with a picture or the reference number of the item so that we may assist you further. Thank you. aishasalim Hi Aisha thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly request that you provide us katieharker Kindly confirm if the item was purchased instore or online if online please forward us the order number. Thank you. SergioRamos con nuestro Servicio de Atencin al Cliente contctanos en nuestra cuenta de Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. SergioRamos en cuenta tus comentarios y se los trasladaremos a nuestro departamento de producto. Para consultas relacionadas SergioRamos Hola nuestro rango de tallas intenta adaptarse a las necesidades de todos nuestros clientes. No obstante tendremos ChusHidalgo Para cualquier otra duda quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. ChusHidalgo Te aconsejamos acudir a tu tienda ms cercana para que nuestro personal pueda valorar el producto y ayudarte. ChusHidalgo Hola Chus. Te pedimos disculpas ya que todos nuestros artculos pasan estrictos controles de calidad antes de su venta. LacreshaHearn checking our New In section where you may find an item similar to your interest. We hope this helps. Thanks. LacreshaHearn Hi Lacresha please note that the shoes ref are currently out of stock. We recommend lesliemf Hi we ask that you tap on the envelope icon on your twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks. meganwhite Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us the stores location including the time of your visit. Thanks. guille disposicin en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias. guille Hola. La tarjeta regalo adquirida en Espaa no tiene fecha de caducidad. Para cualquier futura consulta quedamos a tu mercurialone Hi we apologize for the misunderstanding. We inform you that the store will open Fall . We hope this helps. Thanks. Blancazm Hola Blanca. Nos preocupa tu mensaje. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para ayudarte. Gracias DonnaWillimott accordingly. We apologize for the inconvenience. For future queries please contact our ZARA Care account. Thanks. DonnaWillimott visiting any Zara store within the same country of purchase where a manager will assess the item and advise you DonnaWillimott Hi Donna we are sorry to hear that as all our products undergo strict quality control procedures. We recommend lesliemf Hi thank you for contacting Zara. Please send us a DM with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. AlanTeniaRazon a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. AlanTeniaRazon Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude en contactar con nosotros AlanTeniaRazon en la que encontrar toda la informacin referente a nuestros mtodos de envo. AlanTeniaRazon Hola Alan. En respuesta a su consulta le sugerimos visitar nuestra gua de compras arlanchester reference number to verify availability. Thanks. arlanchester our US website and has no future replenishment.We kindly suggest contacting your preferred Zara store with the arlanchester Hi Aj thank you for your interest in our products. Please be advised that this item is no longer available in size on sophiekateblogs store location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. NigiJkgold Hi we can confirm that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. GracieDeale Hi Gracie were sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details to our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. joshuajacob Hi Joshua we appreciate your feedback. In case of future queries please contact us ZARACare. Thanks. Glesfour Gracias. Para cualquier otra consulta estamos a tu disposicin a travs de la cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias. CaveRosie to zaramkinditex.com for further assistance. Thank you. CaveRosie Hi Rosie thank you for your interest. We kindly suggest that you forward your query Glesfour una tienda Zara para que valoren la prenda y te ayuden. Muchas gracias. Glesfour Hola. Sentimos lo sucedido ya que todos nuestros artculos pasan por estrictos controles de calidad. Puedes acercarte a sophiesstacey Hi Sophie we will pass your comments onto the relevant department for their consideration as this helps us improve. Thanks. Robinbecky to the pertaining area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. ArazDamla Grlerinizin deerlendirmek iin ilgili departman ile paylayor olacaz. Teekkrler. crisrodriz que estn en la tienda. Por favor envanos un MD a ZARA Care con tu consulta y estaremos encantados de ayudarte. Gracias. crisrodriz Hola. Sentimos las molestias ocasionadas pero nuestros compaeros han de priorizar la atencin a los clientes MagsThoughts Hi Maggie this truly concerns us. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. MackenzyRice Hi Mackenzy we regret to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. ShopSaveSequin Hi we apologize for this please send us a DM via ZaraCare with further details so we can review it. Thanks. PrimAYanna Thank you for informing us Selene. In case of further queries please contact us ZARACare. Thanks. careyfiona subscribe to our Newsletter and visit our website for further updates. Thank you for your interest in our brand. careyfiona Hi Fiona please note that we are unable to specify a date for the beginning of our Sale. We kindly suggest that you queennut Hello Nisha please be advised that we have now replied to your DM. Thank you. RaquelEvita Hi Raquel to further assist kindly DM us further details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. ShopSaveSequin Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. Rebekahhh Hi Rebekah we are truly concerned. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. martatorregrosa aplicacin. Para las futuras consultas quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias por tu inters. martatorregrosa Hola Marta. Nuestro recomendador de talla ya est disponible en la App de Espaa. Te recomendamos actualizar la GreenEditionEU You can find it below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thank you. GreenEditionEU Hi please provide us with the reference number of the item and we will be glad to inform you. JadedFragments Hi please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. Heyitsaishaj to our Newsletter and visit our website regularly for further updates. Thank you for your interest in our brand. Heyitsaishaj Hi please note that we are unable to specify a date for the beginning of our Sale. We kindly suggest that you subscribe ChristerMarie regularly for a similar item. Thanks. ChristerMarie However your feedback will be forwarded to the relevant area for consideration. We recommend visiting our Bags ChristerMarie Hi thank you for your interest in our product. Please be advised currently this item is not manufactured in black. katscloset Hi Kathleen kindly DM us ZARACare with a picture or the reference number of the skirt so we could assist you. Thanks. allisonclaire Hi Allison please DM us with further details via our Zaracare account so we may assist you. Thanks. MrNaveenKumar Hi Naveen please DM us more information regarding the package that your received via our Zaracare account. Thanks. DePriceIsRight Hi Diana we apologize for this. Please DM us your order number via our ZaraCare account so we may look into this. Thanks. PrimAYanna Hi Selene please send us further details via DM ZaraCare. Thanks. SusieErdelyan Hi Susie we will forward your suggestion to the appropriate department. Thanks for your feedback. SmirkySud in the future. You may forward your queries through the following contact form Thanks. ShopSaveSequin Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. If you require further assistance please do not hesitate to contact us. Thanks. mdotsC We await your reply. Thanks. mdotsC Hi we kindly ask that you please DM us the reference number of the item in question for further assistance. MissOlympiaJ Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details so we may better assist you. Thanks. TheRobLynch We kindly request that you DM us a picture displaying the item so that we may assist you further. Thank you. TheRobLynch Hi Rob we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. laurastaniforth Hi Laura please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. ayabaillie department to avoid this from happening again. We apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused. Thanks. ayabaillie Hi Alex we are sorry your store experience was not positive. Please be advised that we will forward this to the relevant njhlocally Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. However ZARA does not participate in this type of collaborations. Thanks. marisaroa al departamento responsable de Madrid para que se revise de forma interna con la tienda de Conde Pealver. Gracias. marisaroa Hola. Esta experiencia se aleja mucho de nuestros estndares de calidad de atencin al cliente. Remitiremos tus comentarios martingades order number in a DM on Zara Care. Thank you very much. martingades Hello Martin thanks for your purchase. In order to assist you further please let us know your Halloule Hi kindly send us a DM to our ZARA Care account confirming your country of purchase so we can further assist. Thank you. Maria donde nuestro personal valorar el vestido y te aconsejar adecuadamente. Gracias. Maria de su distribucin. En este caso te aconsejamos que acudas a tu tienda ZARA ms cercana Maria Hola Mara. Sentimos lo que nos cuentas ya que todos nuestros productos pasan por estrictos controles de calidad antes alegnasf Hi Angela thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that separate returns must be packed individually. Thank you. CocoOno the return tracking number used to process this return so we may take a look into this. Thank you. CocoOno Hi Coleen we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number and angiesilvat cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZaraCare. Gracias. angiesilvat cdigos ni cupones de descuento. Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra angiesilvat Hola Angie. Le informamos que Zara no tiene relacin con el evento que menciona ya que nuestra marca no promociona ArturoMunguia le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. ArturoMunguia no realizamos este tipo de eventos. Esperamos que esta informacin le haya sido til. Para futuras consultas ArturoMunguia Hola Arturo. En respuesta a su consulta le confirmamos que esta promocin no est vinculada a Zara cubabaraja Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. cubabaraja no est vinculada a Zara no realizamos este tipo de eventos. Esperamos que esta informacin le haya sido til. cubabaraja Hola Eduardo. Gracias por contactar con ZARA. En respecto a su consulta le confirmamos que esta promocin EmilyLFoley Hi Emily please note our DM inbox is open for all customers via our ZaraCare account. We await your reply. Thanks marisaroa cuenta de Twitter ZARA Care con fecha y hora de lo ocurrido para que podamos revisarlo. Gracias. marisaroa Hola Marisa. Sentimos tu descontento. Por favor envanos un MD con ms datos a nuestra ClarNoExplica no olvide contactarnos a travs de Zara Care nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter. Muchas gracias. ClarNoExplica a Zara no realizamos este tipo de eventos. Esperamos que esta informacin le haya sido til. Para futuras consultas ClarNoExplica Hola. Gracias por contactar con ZARA. En respecto a su consulta le confirmamos que esta promocin no est vinculada amandacamilov Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. ShopSaveSequin Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. LaPenderiedeLau Nous restons votre disposition depuis le compte ZARA Care Merci. LaPenderiedeLau Bonjour le Tshirt volants en popeline avec rfrence est actuellement disponible sur notre site pratikpatel Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we may assist you further. We await your reply. Thanks. EmilyLFoley Hi Emily thank you for contacting Zara. Please send us a DM with further details to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. ReemRozay the Man section for similar products that may be of your interest We hope this is helps.Thanks. ReemRozay Hi thanks for your query. Please be advised that currently we do not have rompers available. However we suggest you check JadedFragments Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us with further details to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. uxahoe specific size dimensions our garments. This will assist you in finding the size that will suit you best. Thanks. uxahoe Hi thank you for your interest in our products. We recommend you refer to the Size Guide on the Product Detail page for DanielleAttia Customer Care services contact us through our ZARA Care account on Twitter. Thanks. DanielleAttia Paris or call so they may assist you further. For further queries related to our DanielleAttia Hello Danielle please forward your query to our Office at Av. des Terroirs de France Immeuble Garonne ChrisDenniz le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Muchas gracias. ChrisDenniz Hemos trasladado su sugerencia al departamento correspondiente para su consideracin. Para futuras consultas ChrisDenniz no contamos con ninguna sucursal en Chetumal pero no descartamos esta posibilidad en el futuro. ChrisDenniz Hola gracias por contactarnos y por su inters en nuestra firma. En estos momentos chloephoro ZARA Care afin que nous puissions vous aider Merci. chloephoro Bonjour merci de nous fournir votre numro de commande par MD notre compte LuisBagorro Hi thank you for contacting ZARA. Please confirm which country you are contacting us from. We await your reply. Thanks. styleinmadrid con ms detalles y el nmero de pedido para que podamos ayudarte Muchas gracias. styleinmadrid Hola sentimos tu descontento con nuestro servicio. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care ayabaillie time of your visit to the store so we may address this matter. Thanks. ayabaillie Hi Alex we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us additional details including the stores location and the date and johntavier Hi thank you for your query. Please provide the reference number or a picture of the item you are referring to. Thanks. CocoOno Hi Coleen thank you for contacting ZARA. Please provide us additional details regarding your query so we may assist you. Thanks. PeyoCabrera Puedes enviarnos un MD pinchando en el icono de mensaje que encontrars debajo de nuestra foto de perfil de ZARA Care. Gracias. PeyoCabrera Hola. Por favor envanos un MD con ms detalles incluyendo la ubicacin de la tienda para poder revisarlo. Gracias. geegriffiths We will most certainly forward any feedback you may want to provide us through DM. Thank you. geegriffiths Hi Gerga we truly regret that this is your perception as we do our best to accommodate customers requests. StellaKatterman option to receive notifications regarding this. Thank you. StellaKatterman online but will be replenished in the near future. We kindly suggest to use our email me when available StellaKatterman Hello Stella thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that this item ref is currently out of stock GreenEditionEU through our corporate website Thank you for shopping at Zara. GreenEditionEU Hi we truly appreciate your interest in our brand. You can learn more about our supply chain huayoancona Si se trata de una compra online envenos su nmero de pedido. Gracias. huayoancona Gracias por la informacin Ana. Por favor indquenos si se trata de una compra en tienda o en lnea. travesurienta Para cualquier otra duda contctenos a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente Zaracare. Gracias. travesurienta en caso necesario. Le pedimos que lleve el tcket de compra si an lo conserva. Sentimos las molestias ocasionadas. travesurienta a una de nuestras sucursales donde nuestros compaeros podrn valorar el artculo y ofrecerle ofrecerle una solucin travesurienta Gracias por su pronta respuesta. Como nos indica que se trata de una compra en tienda le pedimos que se desplace KarizmaFabulous Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please DM us with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. mdotsC We suggest checking the New In section for similar items. Thanks. mdotsC Hi we have confirmed that ref. and have sold out without any expected replenishment. edwinjsuarez confirmando la tienda que has visitado a nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente ZARA Care. Muchas gracias. edwinjsuarez Hola Edwin. Sentimos lo ocurrido. Por favor envanos un MD con ms datos de lo sucedido AbiHick Hi we have replied to your DM. Thank you. kramnik estamos a su disposicin a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente Zaracare en Twitter. Gracias. kramnik hemos envado su sugerencia al departamento correspondiente para su consideracin. Para futuras consultas kramnik Hola. Le informamos que por el momento el nico transportista encargado de las recolecciones es Estafeta. Sin embargo pauparra Hola Ana. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Gracias. Monotone tropical print zaraman AbiHick Hi we are sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us your order number so that we may assist you further with your query. Thank you. Gwendi account ZARA Care Thanks. Gwendi the corresponding department for future reference. For future queries please feel free to contact our customer service Gwendi Hi we inform you that the item is not distributed in XL. However we will forward your feedback to mariagdiaz Hola Mara. Sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor ms detalles por MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. kramnik un mensaje privado ms detalles de lo sucedido para poder asistirle. Gracias. kramnik Hola. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos a travs de AnaluCoco No olvide contactarnos a travs de Zara Care nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter. Gracias. AnaluCoco Hola. Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje privado con ms informacin acerca de lo sucedido. travesurienta Si se trata de una compra en lnea envenos su nmero de pedido. Gracias. travesurienta Hola. Por favor indquenos si se trata de una compra en tienda u online. yiannisines Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks mdotsC Hi we kindly ask that you provide us the reference number of the item to further assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. sanazalizadehs Hi we are sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. uhLEEsuh Hi please subscribe to our Newsletter and we will send information about upcoming promotions. Thanks. All over floral print print for Man zaraman titchtamsin improvements. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your valuable feedback. titchtamsin have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area and to our Lakeside branch in order to implement any necessary titchtamsin Hi Tamsin we are sorry to hear to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. Kindly be advised that we Nevaehskyless suggest that you to go on our website where the garment is available in all sizes Thank you. Nevaehskyless Hi. We can confirm that item ref. is sold out in our stores and is not expected to be replenished. We kindly DanielleDunne so that we may assist you further. Thank you. DanielleDunne Hi we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us a picture or the reference number of the item Nevaehskyless Hi kindly confirm the size you are interested in so we can further assist. Thanks vanateIier online or in store purchase. You may submit these details via ZARA Care on Twitter our customer support account. Thanks. vanateIier Hi in order to adequately assist with your query please confirm the country of purchase and whether this pertains to an susanajdr Hola Susana. Hemos respondido a tu mensaje directo. Muchas gracias. SheGoesWear We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. SheGoesWear Hi Dorothy we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. DanielleDunne request that you DM us further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. DanielleDunne Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We kindly NadinaK Hi Nadina we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. Tropical leaf print print for Man zaraman TinyRed for any new items that may be similar to the one of your interest. Thank you. TinyRed Hi we truly apologized for any inconvenience this may caused. We kindly suggest you check the New In section ellenjoymak Hi Ellen this truly concerns us. To further assist kindly DM us more details including the location you visited. Thanks. TinyRed We kindly suggest contacting your preferred Zara store with the reference number to verify availability. Thank you. TinyRed Hi please be advised that the item with reference number is no longer available and has no future replenishment. emoleechen Hi Emily we truly regret your disappointment. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. jeannedieIman the following tracking number ZXW. We hope you find this information useful. Thank you. jeannedieIman Hi please be advised that your order has been shipped and you may check its shipping status via UPS with LacreshaHearn Hi Lacresha to further assist you kindly DM us your inquiry through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. MoStyle Hi we have responded via your Facebook account. Thanks. susanajdr revisarlo directamente con la tienda en cuestin. Gracias. susanajdr Hola. Sentimos que esta sea tu impresin. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para poder josehsp cualquier futura consulta en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias. josehsp cuestin. Agradecemos el tiempo que te hayas tomado para hacernos llegar esta informacin y quedamos a tu disposicin para josehsp Hola. Sentimos or eso. Vamos a trasladar tus comentarios al rea responsable para revisarlo directamente con tienda en strujilloba Hola. Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Gracias. Srey Hi we are sorry to hear this. Rest assured your comments will be reviewed to improve on your overall shopping experience. Thanks. macmiho Hi thanks for your feedback. For future queries please contact our Zara Care page for assistance. Thank you. ClairWaldron Hi Clair we have replied to your query via our Zara Care account. Thank you. NadinaK We kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. NadinaK Hi Nadina please be advised to avoid disclosing sensitive information such as order numbers publicly. MHL following link We hope you find this information useful. Thank you. MHL animals as stated in our Animal Welfare Policy. Further information regarding this policy may be located via the MHL Hi thank you for your patience. Please be advised that the feathers on item ref. have not been obtained from live ashleyxlee Hi please send us a DM with the reference number so we may further assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. laurenfritzxo Hi we do not have any plans to open a store in this area but we do not rule out this possibility in the near future. Thanks. Srey Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we may look into this for you. We await your reply. Thanks. dinesh Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM with more details so we may look into this. We await your reply. Thanks. pradnyaw Hi please send us a DM with more details so we may further look into this. Thanks. macmiho Hi we are sorry for the inconvenience. Please DM us with more details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. jmayneezy Hi please subscribe to our Newsletter and we will send you news and information about new trends every week. Thanks. VictoriaMB Hi Victoria we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. Marigomezs nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido para poder asistirle. Gracias. Marigomezs Hola Maribel. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Le pedimos de que por favor ohblossoms clicando na opo Disponibilidade na Loja ou ligando para o . Obrigado. ohblossoms Pode consultar a disponibilidade do artigo nas nossas lojas atravs do nosso site ohblossoms Ol. O artigo com a referncia est esgotado online no tamanho S e em princpio no haver reposio do mesmo. paraquebailemiR Te recomendamos que acudas a tu tienda Zara ms cercana para que nuestro personal pueda valorar el abrigo y ayudarte. paraquebailemiR Hola. Sentimos lo que nos cuentas ya que todos nuestros productos pasan por estrictos controles de calidad. HeyJMHayes the pertaining area as it helps us to improve our services. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. HeyJMHayes Hi Jess we are sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your comments to TolicPetra through our corporate website Thank you for shopping at Zara. MaxrobsonMax comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. TolicPetra Hi Petra we truly appreciate your interest in our brand. You can learn more about our supply chain MaxrobsonMax Hi thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your stefaniemutton account Thank you. stefaniemutton similar item of your interest. For future queries please refer to our Zara Care stefaniemutton with no plans of future replenishment. We kindly suggest that you visit our New In section where you may find a stefaniemutton Hi Stefanie thank you for your response. Please be advised that item ref. is out of stock online in size S ohblossoms Obrigado pela sua resposta. Por favor confirmenos o tamanho que voc est procurando para poder ajudlo. Obrigado. stefaniemutton require so that we may assist you. Thank you. stefaniemutton Hi Stefanie thank you for showing an interest in our products. We kindly request that you confirm the size you RiaChatter Hi Ria we have replied to your query via our Zara Care account. Thank you. sobelgui Hola Soraya. Sentimos las molestias. Trasladaremos tus comentarios al rea responsable para futuras mejoras. Gracias. NicoleRaquelD available to purchase. We kindly suggest that you visit your local store for our range of perfumes. Thank you. NicoleRaquelD Hi Nicole thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that the mentioned product is no longer MHL and you will be contacted as soon as further updates become available. Thank you. MHL Hi thank you for your patience. We can confirm that we are awaiting further information from the corresponding department diogodelslay Ol. Obrigado pelo seu interesse na Zara. Agradecemos que remeta a sua proposta atravs do email zaramkinditex.com. Obrigado. miiimifg este enlace Para futuras consultas no dudes en escribirnos a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care. Gracias. miiimifg Hola. Te sugerimos que revises nuestra Gua de tallas para ayudarte a escoger la medida que mejor se adapta a ti a travs de ohblossoms Ol por favor envienos a referncia ou uma foto do artigo para que possamos ajudarlhe com a sua questo. Obrigado. GeorgiaMae corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. GeorgiaMae Hi Georgia thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the CeedricL Bonjour nous sommes dsols. Nhsitez pas nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. ericagaleax Zara Care account Thank you. ericagaleax may find a similar item of your interest. For future queries please refer to our ericagaleax online in size S with no plans of future replenishment. We kindly suggest that you visit our New In section where you ericagaleax Hi Erica thank you for showing an interest in our products. Please be advised that item ref. is out of stock aMosquitaMuerta nos puedes encontrar en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Muchas gracias. Lunadc nuestro personal senior valorar el jersey y te aconsejar adecuadamente. Gracias. aMosquitaMuerta Hola. Trasladaremos lo que comentas al departamento correspondiente. Para cualquier otra consulta o sugerencia Lunadc distribucin. En este caso te aconsejamos que acudas a tu tienda ZARA ms cercana Lunadc Hola. Sentimos lo que nos cuentas ya que todos nuestros productos pasan por estrictos controles de calidad antes de su lindsJF Hi Lindsay we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks iTorrezno si nos indicas la tienda en la que ests interesado podremos darte informacin ms concreta. Gracias. iTorrezno Hola Jess. Te informamos de que la mayor parte de nuestras tiendas de Madrid abrirn hoy con un horario reducido millyvasey Hi Milly we have replied to your query via our Zara Care account. Thank you. jessssssssw Hello Jess we have replied to your DM. Thank you. TataPaname Nous transmettrons vos commentaires au service concern afin de pouvoir amliorer notre service sur place. Merci. TataPaname Bonjour Renatha nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne. Notre objectif est doffrir une exprience dachat positive. stefaniemutton department we will update you once further details become available. Thank you. stefaniemutton Hi Stefanie thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your query to the corresponding libbywindlex team on for further assistance. Thank you for your interest in our products. libbywindlex may check store stock by using our INSTORE AVAILABILITY option. Alternatively you may contact our store support libbywindlex Hi Libby kindly be advised that the item reference is now sold out and will not be replenished online. You RAMtm Hi Rebecca we can confirm that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. madeinkellsey Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. NadinaK If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. NadinaK We kindly request that you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. NadinaK Hi Nadina we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. RobinV Indien u de broek in de winkel had aangekocht adviseren we u met de aankoop naar een van onze Nederlandse winkel te gaan. Bedankt danielledresou services. We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. danielledresou We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our danielledresou Hi Danielle we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. RobinV alvorens ze het warenhuis verlaten. Stuurt u ons alstublieft uw order nummer in een DM zodat we u kunnen helpen. Bedankt. RobinV Dag Robin het spijt ons zeer te horen van uw broek helemaal omdat al onze producten een strenge kwaliteistcontrole ondergaan Bhristinaa We suggest that you visit our website regularly. Thanks. Bhristinaa Hi please note that item in size L will be available without an exact date. downtolastpenny Hi thanks for your reply. To properly assist you kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. modskii We suggest you visit our New In section so you may find an item similar to your interest. Thanks. modskii Hi kindly note that item is out of stock in size M with no scheduled replenishment. GracaMutseyami Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. modskii Hi thanks for your interest in our products. Please DM us the reference number so we may assist you. Thanks. Bhristinaa Hi thanks for your interest. Please DM us the reference number so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. MrNonProfit Just tap on the envelope icon on your twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks MrNonProfit Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. levimcrombie to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. levimcrombie Hi thank you for your response. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments MrNonProfit Hi thanks for your interest in ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details. Thanks. DiscoSquirrel If online please provide us with the order number. Thank you. DiscoSquirrel We kindly request hat you DM us confirming whether the item was purchased instore or online. DiscoSquirrel Hi we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. downtolastpenny Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details including the location and time of your visit. Thanks. levimcrombie comments as feedback as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. levimcrombie a store in this location but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your levimcrombie Hi thank you for your query. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open aycenne Hi Anne kindly send us a DM with more details through our ZARA Care account so we can look into this. Thanks. IamAbelSalinas Hi Abel to further assist kindly DM us a picture or the reference number of the jacket you wish to purchase. Thanks. MHL and you will be contacted as soon as further updates become available. Thank you. MHL Hi thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we are currently reviewing this with the corresponding department iTravelseries Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. petitealicia Bonjour Alicia merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. ThreeBrits Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. SarahBreakwell most certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. SarahBreakwell Hi Sarah we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will JonSingleton Hello Jon we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us details of your query so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. talitaschneider de perfil de ZARA Care. Esperamos que esta informacin sea de utilidad. Gracias. talitaschneider Hola Ana. Puedes enviarnos un MD pinchando en el icono de mensaje que encontrars debajo de nuestra foto talitaschneider incluyendo la ubicacin de la tienda para que podamos revisar el caso. Gracias. talitaschneider Hola. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care indicando ms detalles sobre lo ocurrido JordanSwope Hi Jordan we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details so we may further assist you. Thanks. GibbonsDean Hi Dean to further assist kindly DM us your order number through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. joachimicloud Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans lun de nos magasins afin que notre personnel puisse vous aider. Merci. joachimicloud Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne. Sachez que nos articles sont soumis des contrles de qualit. MargaretReed Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks UrfavouriteJ area as this helps to improve our services. Thank you. UrfavouriteJ Hi Jade thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your positive feedback to the pertaining Netbettybetty directamente con la tienda para confirmarlo. Para futuras consultas te esperamos en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. Netbettybetty Hola. Como indicamos en nuestra pgina web el stock de tienda es siempre orientativo y recomendamos contactar WolfpuppyMax As there is no exact date available we recommend that you visit our website regularly for updates. Thanks. WolfpuppyMax Hi Max we inform you that the Kimonos pictured will be available soon. krishhhyyy Hi Kristal hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. OpokuKevin Hi Kevin please be informed that we have now replied to your DM. Thank you. JadeFerrettiHR Hi we have replied to your query via our Zara Care account. Thank you. mananm confirming in which store did this happen so we may review it. Thanks. mananm Hello Manan we are sorry to hear this. Please send us more details through a DM to our ZARA Care account anoukonadore For further queries contact our Customer Service account ZARA Care anoukonadore We recommend checking the lastest fashion releases on our website anoukonadore Hello this bag is from a previous collection and is not expected to be replenished. ThreeBrits Hi we sorry to hear of your disappointment. As previously advised please DM us for further assistance. Thank you. zohrasrose department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. zohrasrose Hello thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that this has been forwarded to the relevant Ellewalker Hi thank you for contacting us. Kindly DM us your order number so that we may assist you further with your query. Thank you. Exotic allure Kiki wears the floral printed kimono dress zarawoman zaraeditorial ElizabethIngold Hi Elizabeth to further assist you kindly DM us your inquiry including the stores location. Thanks. anoukonadore Hi kindly send us a DM to our ZARA Care account confirming your country of purchase so we can further assist. Thank you. taylorrmwood Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks ElizabethIngold Hi Elizabeth we are sorry to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us the reference number of the items. Thanks. LaurenIvins Kindly DM us with the device and browser you are using so that we may assist you further. Thank you. LaurenIvins Hi Lauren thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that or website is currently not experiencing any problems. ajs Taylor we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks ajs Hi Taylor no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. sacuxi nuestro personal valorar las prendas y te aconsejar adecuadamente. Gracias. sacuxi distribucin. En este caso te aconsejamos que acudas a tu tienda ZARA ms cercana sacuxi Hola. Sentimos lo que nos cuentas ya que todos nuestros productos pasan por estrictos controles de calidad antes de su Spoom que estn en la tienda. Por favor envanos un MD a ZARA Care con tu consulta y estaremos encantados de ayudarte. Gracias. Spoom Hola. Sentimos las molestias ocasionadas pero nuestros compaeros han de priorizar la atencin a los clientes SariKlaczkowski Hi we are sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with further details to assist you further. We await your reply. Thanks. tbrumm Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks Light and enveloping kimono for and exotic allure zarawoman zaraeditorial pintucris devolucin postal o desde tu domicilio. Si tienes ms dudas puedes enviar un MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. pintucris Hola. Puedes usar cualquier tipo de cinta adhesiva para sellar la caja. Adems te recordamos que disponemos de opciones ClauuLaLaLa Hola Claudia. Ya hemos respondido al mensaje directo que nos has enviado a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care. Gracias. sarahconti Bonjour Sarah merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. JustLau de su venta. No dudes en enviarnos ms informacin por MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. JustLau Hola. Sentimos escuchar esto puesto que nuestros artculos son sometidos a rigurosos controles de calidad antes LBonse as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. LBonse Hi Lauren we are sorry to hear this. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department Long lengths fluid and voluminous its an exotic allure zarawoman zaraeditorial SomeOpenLetters Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review this. Thanks. motive Hello Santos please note that Zara does not participate in this type of collaborations. Thanks for your interest in our brand. Pack your tent its time for summer camp New Kids editorial available zaraeditorial zarakids jeannedieIman Hi there are no plans for this item to be restocked in size M in the future. We apologize for this. Thanks. genesisx We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks. genesisx Hi Genesis thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. jillibean Hi Jill please DM us at Zaracare with further details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. MELENDEZJONATAN Hi Jonatan we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks meghanbanke Hi Meghan thanks for your interest in our brand. We inform you that this item is available in all sizes currently. Thank you. Cassandramh Hi thank you for your feedback. Your comments will be shared for future consideration. Thanks for your interest in Zara. arifhdu Hi we appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks for your interest in Zara AllisonnKelleyy for any items that may be similar to the one of your interest. Thanks. AllisonnKelleyy Hi Allison we apologize that this item is not available. We kindly suggest you check the New In section Raagjepaagje Dag Rachel bedankt voor uw DM naar Zara Care. We hebben hierop gereageerd. Bedankt. ThatGirlShaeXo Hi Shae we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thank you. Lailaine Hi thank you very much for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any queries. Thanks. LOVENAVK Hi thank you for your interest in Zara. We are happy to know that we were able to meet your expectation. Thanks. HelenaStone Hi Helena we have responded via DM. Thanks. Raagjepaagje Dag Rachel stuurt u ons alstublieft uw order nummer in een DM zodat we u kunnen informeren. Alvast bedankt. Time for summer camps Check new Kids editorial at zarakids zaraeditorial kathchristie available online in all sizes except L We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. kathchristie as we are unable to provide store stock information via this platform. Please also note that this item ref is currently kathchristie and may not be able to attend to every call. We kindly advise you to contact our store support team on kathchristie Hi Katherine we are sorry to hear this. Please be advised that the store must maintain the level of customer service ValentinRV Bien que vous ne disposiez plus du ticket dachat notre personnel pourra vous aider en constatant ltat du produit. Merci. DominiqueBurgh Hi Dominique please DM us your order number to our ZARA Care account so we may further assist. Thank you. guaje Hola sentimos lo ocurrido. Por favor dinos de qu tienda se trata y cundo ha sucedido para poder tratarlo debidamente. Gracias. ValentinRV prsentent un dfaut vous pouvez vous rendre en magasin o notre personnel pourra vous renseigner. Merci. ValentinRV Bonjour Cristian sachez que nos articles sont soumis des contrles de qualit. Si vous estimez que nos pantalons Ready for a summer camp Check kids editorial at zarakids zaraeditorial rachelhawley for further assistance. Thank you. rachelhawley service therefore may not attend to every call. We kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on rachelhawley Hi Rachel we apologise for this. Please be informed you that our stores must maintain a high level of customer mamikocc Resmi internet sitemiz adresi zerinden ulaabileceinizi belirtmek isteriz. Emanuel Hi we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please send us a DM with further details to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. alefun on our website for our latest collection. Thanks. alefun and therefore not available online. We kindly suggest that you check the New In section alefun Hi Alejandra thank you for your recent query. Please note that this item is from a past season elenacruzjewels Hola Elena muchas gracias por la informacin que nos envas. Nuestro equipo te contactar lo antes posible. Un saludo. The vacation edit New Woman editorial now available zarawoman zaraeditorial Veroxx Hi Vero if you require further assistance please DM the previously requested details so we may look into this matter. Thanks. Veroxx Hi this truly concerns us. In order to further assist please DM us with more details. Thanks. lucasteraas prsente un dfaut nous vous invitons vous rendre en magasin o notre personnel pourra vous aider. Merci. lucasteraas Bonjour sachez que nos produits sont soumis des contrles de qualit. Si vous estimez cependant que le pantalon Lets go for a summer getaway The vacation edit zarawoman zaraeditorial gizzemarslan Merhaba Gizem yaam olduunuz bu aksaklk sebebiyle ok zgn olduumuzu belirtmek isteriz. BAbeya this for you. We await your reply. Thanks. tiffgojo Hi Tiffanie we have responded through our ZARACare account. Thanks. BAbeya Hi Barbara we would be more than glad to assist you. We kindly ask that you DM us your order number so we may look into ShopAdvisorBlog de Atencin al Cliente ZARA Care para que podamos revisarlo Gracias. ShopAdvisorBlog Hola sentimos que este sea tu parecer. Por favor envanos un MD con ms datos a nuestra cuenta This is the vacation edit Woman editorial now available zarawoman zaraeditorial JEyeshield Nous vous invitons vous rendre en magasin o notre personnel pourra vous aider en constatant ltat des pantalons. Merci. JEyeshield Bonjour Julien nous regrettons la gne occasionne. Sachez que nos articles sont soumis des contrles de qualit. kely Hola envanos por favor un MD con tus datos de contacto a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para revisarlo. Gracias. charlieryalls following link Thank you for your interest in our products. charlieryalls Hi Charlie kindly be advised that the item ref. is currently available online and can be found on the berruBlandine nos collgues de Inditex Careers depuis leur page Facebook Merci. berruBlandine Bonjour notre compte soccupe exclusivement du service client de ZARA. Nous vous invitons contacter nos CAITLINxHUDSON ref. . You may enter the following references in the search option on our website. Thank you. CAITLINxHUDSON available online the frilled midi dress ref. the plush dress ref. and the fuchsia sock ankle boots CAITLINxHUDSON Hi Caitlin thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that this full outfit is currently lecouile Bonjour pourriezvous sil vous plat nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. BAbeya Hi we are sorry to hear about this. Please send us a DM with further details to assist you further. Thanks. twoscoops Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks MacAulay Hi we will be glad to help you with this. Please send us a DM with more details so we may assist you further. Thanks. geejoebee Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. butchrosenberg Hi we currently do not sell any fragrances on our website. However we will submit your suggestion to consider. Thanks. elenamavs Hi Elena thank you for contacting ZARA. Please DM us further details at Zaracare so we may assist you. Thanks. LadyWritesBlog Hello please DM us with more details to our ZARA Care account so we can review your case. Thank you. asimedstudent Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks alefun Hi Alejandra we have escalated your query to the product department and will get back to you soon. Thanks. LarizaOrtizR por favor pngase en contacto con nosotros travs de nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zaracare. Gracias LarizaOrtizR Hola Lariza. Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Para futuras consultas elenacruzjewels Por favor envanos un MD con tus datos de contacto para poder revisarlo. Un saludo. elenacruzjewels Hola Elena sentimos lo que nos comentas ya que todas nuestras prendas pasan por estrictos controles de calidad. gabybecerril Para cualquier otra duda contctenos a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente de Twitter Zaracare. Gracias. gabybecerril Hola Gaby. Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles para poder asisitirle. BritSkinner Hi we certainly regret your disappointment. Please DM us further details so we can look into it on our end. Thanks. DanielBarbarak Hola Christian. Le pedimos por favor nos enve un mensaje privado con ms detalles para verificar lo sucedido. Gracias. harmerjoanne department so that we may improve our services. Thank you for your understanding. harmerjoanne are unable to accommodate your request. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the relevant harmerjoanne Hi Joanne please be advised that we must adhere to our policies and treat all of our customers fairly. Therefore we SoftcorePunk Hi we are sorry about it. Please DM us via our ZaraCare with further details so we can look into it on our end. Thanks. AbbieOC For future queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. AbbieOC may find a similar item of your interest. AbbieOC online with no plans of future replenishment. We kindly suggest that you visit our New In section where you AbbieOC Hi Abbie thank you for showing an interest in our products. Please be advised that item ref. is out of stock kurtbardella Hello Kurt we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks saaraher consultas te esperamos en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias por tu inters en nuestros productos. saaraher Hola. En principio no tenemos prevista la reposicin del pantaln ref. . Sentimos las molestias. Para futuras LavieenLucie Merci nous avons rpondu votre DM. mariachaise Gracias. Hemos contestado a tu MD. djtoned We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. djtoned Hi Tony we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. harmerjoanne Thank you for your understanding. harmerjoanne without the receipt as this is mandatory for the refundexchange. This is also stated in our Terms and Conditions. harmerjoanne Hello Joanne we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please be advised that returns cannot be processed for items LavieenLucie ainsi que vos coordonnes par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. LavieenLucie Bonjour nous sommes dsols de la gne occasionne. Nous vous prions de bien vouloir nous fournir plus dinformations AnuskaAMQK Aunque no tengas el ticket de compra puedes acudir igualmente a tu tienda Zara donde nuestro personal podr ayudarte. Gracias. CJEBaumber to the relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. CJEBaumber Hello Caroline we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback camdar but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. camdar Hi Cameron thank you for your query. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open a store in this area PonUnaQueja Hola gracias por hacernos llegar tus comentarios. Los trasladaremos al rea responsable para su revisin. Gracias. SerenaKennedy Hi Serena we can confirm that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. AnuskaAMQK Te recomendamos acudir a tu tienda ms cercana para que nuestro personal pueda valorar el estado de la prenda y ayudarte. AnuskaAMQK Hola. Sentimos tu disconformidad con la calidad de nuestros artculos pues estos pasan estrictos controles de calidad. MyAthletesFoote so that we may assist you further. Thank you. MyAthletesFoote Hi Jordan thank you for your query. We kindly request that you confirm the country you are contacting us from mariachaise Hola Maria. Podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. feraina cuenta ZARA Care para que podamos revisarlo. Gracias. feraina Hola sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles incluyendo la localizacin de la tienda a nuestra petitepoutou en nous indiquant notamment le magasin dans lequel cela a eu lieu Merci. petitepoutou Bonjour Emma pourriezvous sil vous plat nous fournir plus dinformations par MD notre compte ZARA Care kittykatjac so that we may assist you further. Thank you. kittykatjac Hi Jacqui we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us further details Gcrobb request that you DM us further details including the stores location so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Gcrobb Hi Graeme we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We kindly lovelynailsbs Hi please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. nightswithzarry Hi kindly be advised that this item is now sold out and will be not replenished. We kindly suggest that you JulioAngel with further details so we can look into it on our end. Thanks. JulioAngel Hi Julio we are sorry about it. Please DM us via our customer service account Zara Care HelenaStone Hi we are sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with the details so we may assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. ariL Hi we are sorry to hear about this. Please DM us more details so we may assist you further. We await your reply. Thanks. Free in denim New man editorial. Denim with embroidered floral motifs zaraman zaraeditorial kanwalj Hi Kanwal we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to further assist you. Thanks. DeniseNhep Hi Denise thanks for contacting ZARA. To better assist kindly DM us your inquiry through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. busymamaofYYC Hi Alexandra we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us your order number or purchase receipt. Thanks. RoberBDJZ Hola Robert. Envanos por favor el MD a nuestra cuenta ZARACare. Gracias. BeataMay Please DM us further details so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. dskwnd Hi please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. Free in denim New man editorial. Denim with embroidered floral motifs zaraman zaraeditorial emiliaread Hi Emilia we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have responded to your DM. Thank you. becky accordingly. We hope that this information has been useful to you. Thank you. becky that you visit your local Zara store where a senior staff member will assess the item and advise you becky Hi Becky we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through strict quality controls. Our recommendation is RoberBDJZ de compra a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para que podamos ayudarte con tu consulta. Gracias. RoberBDJZ Hola Robert. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles incluyendo la localizacin de la tienda y la copia del ticket Free in denim New man editorial. Denim with embroidered floral motifs zaraman zaraeditorial nygiantsrock Hi please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. agusdoc Just tap on the envelope icon on your twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks agusdoc Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. fwaychel Hi please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. nygiantsrock Hi please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. MariHuevo Hola. En qu podemos ayudarte Gracias. emzie nearest Zara store. Thank you for your interest in our products. emzie online. You may check store stock by using our INSTORE AVAILABILITY option. Alternatively you may directly visit your emzie Hi Emma kindly be advised that the item ref. is now sold out in the requested size and will not be replenished SarahMWillisPR pertaining area as our customers feedback is valuable to us. Thank you for your interest in our brand. SarahMWillisPR Hi Sarah we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have now forwarded your comments to the nygiantsrock Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us your order number or a copy of your purchase receipt. Thanks. agusdoc Hi Agus we kindly inform you that our Zaracare DM is open for all customer correspondence. We await your reply. Thanks. Dear Mumbai our new flagship store at Flora Fountain has bloomed zaraopening dearmumbai lilmitchhh email me when available option and you may get a notification if the item becomes available. Thank you. lilmitchhh online in the near future however we are unable to specify an exact date. We kindly suggest that you subscribe to our lilmitchhh Hi thank you for showing an interest in our products. Please be advised that item ref. will be available SchnegalZoe corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. Pastafarist op Zara Care zodat wij verder kunnen kijken. Dankuwel. Pastafarist Hallo het spijt ons om te horen over uw teleurstelling. Zou u ons meer kunnen vertellen in een prive bericht jaredjjimenez including the date and time of your visit to the store. We await your reply. Thanks. jaredjjimenez Hi this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further details lyns Hi please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. KLJVB as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. KLJVB Hello thank you for your feedback. We can confirm that your comments have been forwarded to the relevant department DanniMenzies Hi Danni we are sorry to hear this. Kindly DM us more information. We will gladly assist you further. Thanks. BlockShops Hi your encouraging feedback is appreciated. Thank you for your interest in Zara. agusdoc Hi Agus we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details of your purchase for assistance. Thanks. SchnegalZoe We will share you feedback with the relevant areas. Thanks. lilmitchhh we will update you once further details become available. Thank you. lilmitchhh Hi Lilly thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your query to the corresponding department fkajenn Hi this really concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details including your order number. Thanks. jc back via our Customer Care account at Zaracare if you have any further queries. Thanks. jc Hi Jason thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us hrmx Hi Harriet we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. CustomerU link Thanks. CustomerU Hi to further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to our ZARA Care Twitter account at the following LucyBedf please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. LucyBedf corresponding department as this helps us to improve our services. For future queries LucyBedf Hi Lucy we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the alici si se trata de una compra en tienda o a travs de nuestra web para que podamos revisarlo inmediatamente. Gracias. alici Hola Alicia. Sentimos lo ocurrido. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care confirmando Martola Hola Marta. Lo sentimos pero esta prenda es de antigua coleccin y no volver a estar disponible. Gracias por tu inters. drjennifertaub Hi kindly send us a DM to our ZARA Care account with more details about your query so we can further assist. Thank you. jwilliams Hi Jordan we have replied to your DM. Thank you. RebeccaRojasMU Thank you for taking the time to pass on your comments and we apologise for any inconvenience caused. RebeccaRojasMU your feedback to the pertaining area in order to implement any necessary improvements. RebeccaRojasMU Hello Rebecca thank you for responding with the requested information. We can confirm that we have forwarded RafaelD in case of future queries via Zara Care. Thank you. RafaelD Hi Rafael. We are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Please do not hesitate to contact us melaniesutra Hi Melanie. We are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Please contact us via Zara Care in the future. Thanks. netamorphosis Hi thanks for your interest in our brand. Please note that ZARA does not participate in promotional events. Thanks. KucThomas Hi Thomas thanks for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks janeoreilly relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. janeoreilly Hello Jane we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the lovedbybrooke relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. lovedbybrooke Hello Brooke thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to our leannewest We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. leannewest your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. leannewest Hi Leanne thank you for providing us with the requested information. We can confirm that we have forwarded danielhervas Hola envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles incluyendo la tienda a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para revisarlo. Gracias. LadyWritesBlog Hello please send us a DM with more details to our ZARA Care account so we may look into it. Thanks. BeLondoned area as our customers feedback is valuable to us. Thank you for your interest in our products. BeLondoned Hi we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining leannewest have you visited so that we may forward your comments to the pertaining area. Thank you. leannewest Hi Leanne we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. Kindly confirm which store in Leeds pmeke futuras consultas estaos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. pmeke Hola. Lo sentimos pero el ticket original de compra es imprescindible para realizar cualquier cambio o devolucin. Para SubhanaHameed in regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist accordingly. Thank you. SubhanaHameed Hello Subhana we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information ECGensheimer Hi this really concerns us. Please DM us further details including your order number so we may take a look into this. Thanks. mgdale this information through ZARA Care on Twitter our customer support account. Thank you. mgdale Hi Georgie could you please confirm the country of purchase We will gladly assist with this query on our end. You may submit CulturalBag details regarding this so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. CulturalBag Hello Marina we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We kindly ask you to DM us further Luchitina te avisaremos si vuelve a estar disponible en el plazo de das. Gracias. Luchitina Hola Luca. Este artculo tiene activada la opcin Avsame cuando Llegue. Si introduces tu direccin email brodieappleton Hi we appreciate your positive comment. We will share this internally as your feedback is very important to us. Thanks. MissSasha Hello Sasha we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further information so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. elzmonfared we can assist you with your request. Thanks. elzmonfared Hi Eli as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or case details. Please DM us your case number so MaryAustinBrodi votre disposition depuis le compte de notre service client ZARA Care. Merci. MaryAustinBrodi Bonsoir merci pour votre message. Nous avons transmis cette information au dpartement correspondant. Nous restons supriyapandhre Hi to further assist DM us your order number to our ZARA Care Twitter account at the link Thanks NEON. New TRF editorial zaratrf zaraeditorial cosicii Hi Ivan we have responded via DM. Thanks. cecymees Hola Cecy. Le pedimos de que por favor nos enve un mensaje directo con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Gracias. SkidLuxury Hi Alana kindly be advised that our team is now handling your case through our Facebook account. Thanks. edalin order number. We await your reply. Thanks. edalin Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further details including your jeanmachine Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks UrbanDerk on or send us a message through our chat service. Thank you. UrbanDerk forward us your query via this platform our Zara Care account Alternatively you may contact us UrbanDerk Hello thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that this email address is no longer in use. We kindly ask you to brritttttttttt the New in Woman section regularly for similar products. Thanks for your interest in Zara. brritttttttttt Hi Brittany items from previous collections are no longer distributed. However we advise checking fionaphoebe Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks NiSeFashionFusn Hi please confirm the country of purchase so we may assist you further. Thanks. caitlinburkee Hi Cait hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. huumfry estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. huumfry ligeramente en funcin del corte modelo y composicin de la prenda. Esperamos haberte ayudado. Para futuras consultas huumfry Hola segn la referencia de ambos pantalones se trata de dos modelos diferentes. Por lo tanto sus tallas pueden variar masalamommas areas. Thank you. masalamommas Hi thanks for your reply. Our customers feedback is truly appreciated and it will be shared with the pertaining elzmonfared take a look into this for you. Thanks. elzmonfared Hi Eli this truly concerns us. Please DM us with further details including your case number if available so we may kaatiiiiiee newsletter to receive future updates regarding this. Thank you. kaatiiiiiee offers will be advertised on our website. We kindly suggest to subscribe to our kaatiiiiiee Hi Katie thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we do not offer any discounts on our items and any special Stay bright NEON. New TRF editorial zaratrf zaraeditorial Mandapanda was purchased. If it was bought online please confirm the order number. Thanks. fmruben Nos alegra que tu caso haya sido resuelto satisfactoriamente. Quedamos a tu disposicin para cualquier otra consulta. Gracias. Mandapanda Hi thank you for contacting us. Kindly send us a DM through our ZARA Care account confirming the store where the top LibertyRana further details of your query so that we may assist you adequately. Thank you. LibertyRana Hello Rana we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We kindly ask you to DM us millllie Hi Amelia thank you for getting back to us. We kindly suggest visiting the store directly to exchangereturn the item. Thanks. AlvaroJackkk Hola lvaro. Por favor envanos un DM a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con ms datos para que te podamos ayudar. Gracias. realjellyfish this helps us to implement necessary improvements. Thank you. realjellyfish We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the relevant department as realjellyfish Hi Merry we are sorry to hear this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. kbranuraydn Merhaba geri bildirimleriniz iin teekkr ederiz cocodelvaux Bonjour merci de nous fournir votre numro de commande par MD notre compte ZARA Care afin que nous puissions vous aider. Add a pop of neon to your look TRF editorial neon zaratrf zaraeditorial masalamommas Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks samiabb at Zaracare so we can assist you with your request. Thanks. samiabb Hi Sam as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details. Please DM us your order number Veroxx Hi we apologize for any inconvenience. Please DM us with more details of your inquiry to assist you. We await your reply. Thanks SkidLuxury Hi Alana kindly be advised that our team is now handling your case through our Facebook account. Thanks. millllie for further assistance. Thank you. millllie service therefore may not attend to every call. We kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on millllie Hi Amelia we apologise for this. We would like to inform you that our stores must maintain a high level of customer rozzerbelle kindly suggest that you check our Blazers section where you may find a similar item. Thank you. rozzerbelle Hi Roseannabelle thank you for your patience. Please be informed that this blazer is not available for sale and we ericycs Hi Eric thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us your inquiry. Thanks. samiabb Hi Sam we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us your order number so we may assist you with your order details. Thanks. wends when the item becomes available within the next two weeks. Thank you for your interest in our products. wends You may subscribe to our email me when available option located on the product page so that you may get a notification wends Hi Wendy kindly be advised that the item ref. will be replenished online although we are unable to specify a date. FashRevIndia that is why it is ranked with one of our highest social rating. Thanks. FashRevIndia and achieves our strict social standards you can check all of them in our Code of Conduct FashRevIndia Hi this coat was made by ZHEJIANG MIXISHI CLOTHES CO. LTD in ZHEJIANG CHINA. This factory has been recently audited drambm No dude en contactarnos a travs de Zara Care en caso de futuras consultas. Muchas gracias. drambm con la sucursal en cuestin para implementar cualquier mejora que sea necesaria. drambm Hola gracias por su pronta respuesta. Estaremos revisando sus comentarios internamente vitadailyvan back at our Customer Care account at Zaracare if you have any queries. Thanks. vitadailyvan Hi thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us AbdullaAlubaidy regarding your query. Thanks. AbdullaAlubaidy Thanks for replying Adbulla. Please DM us via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further details indecisivestyle feel free to contact us through our customer service account ZARA Care. Thanks indecisivestyle Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. For future inquires scarywitchdiva colleagues may look into it. We remain at your disposal for any further assistance at our ZARA Care account. Thanks. scarywitchdiva Hi thank you for taking time to pass on this information. We have forwarded it to the corresponding department so our RSanchez Hola Rodrigo Podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. rozzerbelle as possible. Thank you for your patience. rozzerbelle Hi Roseannabelle kindly be advised that we are currently looking into your query and we will get back to you as soon hollanna and improvement of working and manufacturing conditions. Thanks. hollanna manufacturing conditions It is available to all organisations that genuinely oversee the control hollanna Hi Anna Inditex shares its supplier list with IndustriALLGU to oversee the control and improvement of working and CarlesLOPEZ en cuenta. Para futuras consultas quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente ZARA Care. Gracias. CarlesLOPEZ Gracias por contactarnos Carles. Hemos trasladado tus comentarios al departamento pertinente donde sern tenidos MariHuevo Hola Podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. CarlesLOPEZ Hola Carles. Indcanos por favor a qu tienda te refieres para que podamos revisarlo. Gracias. emilyhunt services. We hope that your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. emilyhunt to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our emilyhunt Hi Emily we apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused as our customers shopping experience is important lauraiapichella Bonjour merci de nous fournir plus dinformations par MD ZARA Care afin que nous puissions vous aider. Merci. Hommezer Pour cette raison nhsitez pas nous fournir plus de dtails par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. Hommezer Bonjour nous regrettons que cela soit votre impression et nous aimerions obtenir plus dinformations. Saandrix Hola Sandra. Te informamos de que la tienda de la Castellana est abierta hoy de a .. Gracias. Nanetje Hi Nanette please note the reference number of the item is necessary in order to be able to further assist. Thanks. DaavidPiriz consultas en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias por tu comprensin. DaavidPiriz momento. Te aconsejamos que nos contactes a travs del telfono . Quedamos a tu disposicin para futuras DaavidPiriz Hola sentimos las molestias ocasionadas. Nuestras tiendas deben dar prioridad a los clientes que estn presentes en ese fmruben nuestras tiendas para que podamos ayudarte. Quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. fmruben Hola Ruben. Sentimos lo sucedido pues nuestros productos pasan estrictos controles de calidad. Por favor dirgete a una de haizeaburuan number of the item you are interested in so we can help. Thank you. haizeaburuan Hi kindly send us a DM to our ZARA Care account on twitter quoting the full reference rubiopedro Para futuras consultas nos puedes encontrar en ZARA Care. Gracias. rubiopedro De todas formas remitiremos tus comentarios al departamento responsable para que se tengan. rubiopedro Hola Pedro. Los nombres de nuestras secciones responden a decisiones y criterios estrictamente comerciales. lizzieallison to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. lizzieallison Hi Lizzie thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments angelyolgado en la tienda y su ubicacin para que podamos revisar el caso. Gracias. angelyolgado Hola por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con ms detalles sobre lo ocurrido naroawt ZARA Care para cualquier consulta. Gracias. naroawt Hola Naroa. Gracias por tu inters en nuestros artculos y por tu feedback. No dudes en contactarnos de nuevo a travs de aztequin para implementar cualquier mejora que sea necesaria. Gracias. aztequin Lamentamos escuchar esto Carlos. Enviaremos sus comentarios al departamento correspondiente hyej Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. drambm de lo sucedido a travs de Zara Care para que podamos revisar su caso. Muchas gracias. drambm Hola Marina. Lamentamos escuchar esto. Por favor envenos un mensaje con ms detalles aztequin ms detalles a travs de Zara Care para que podamos revisar su caso. Muchas gracias. aztequin Hola Carlos. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con patribeltran a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter ZARACare. Gracias. patribeltran sentimos las molestias ocasionadas. Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude en contactarnos patribeltran Hola Patricia. En caso de que necesite ayuda con alguna consulta ms estaremos encantados de ayudarle. De nuevo toreytea Hi we are very concerned. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your concerns so we may address them. Thanks. blamelesslyjoan back if you have any further queries. Thanks. blamelesslyjoan Hi thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us Peaches Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks zeexbrun Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks rozzerbelle Hi Roseannabelle please be advised that we will not be able to assist you further without a picture of the item. Thank you. itsruhbecca Hi Becca we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the reference number of the item in question to better assist you. Thanks. justinelouisex Hi Justine we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the time of your visit so we may further assist you. Thanks. jessie Hi Jessie to further assist you kindly DM us your inquiry through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. sexylex Hi we are sorry to hear this. Please send a DM with these details and your purchase receipt. We await your reply. Thanks. TenilleArts Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. If you have any queries feel free to contact us ZARACare. Thanks. meganjgrundy so that we may assist you further. Thank you. meganjgrundy We kindly request that you DM us further details including a picture or the reference number of the item meganjgrundy Hi Megan we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. blamelesslyjoan number to ZARA Care Twitter if you require our assistance. Thanks. blamelesslyjoan Hi Adwoa we are truly sorry to learn this is your perception. Feel free to DM us with further details and the order MimiAmy department so that we may improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. MimiAmy Hello Amy we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have shared your feedback with the relevant rozzerbelle item you are enquiring so that we may further assist you. Thank you. rozzerbelle Hello Roseannabelle thank you for contacting us. Please be advised we require a picture or the reference number of the Geesus department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. Geesus Hello thank you for your product query. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the relevant sairashah department as this help us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. sairashah download our Zara app as it is more userfriendly. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback to the relevant sairashah Hello Saira we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. If you are using a mobile or tablet we kindly suggest to Meeekaaaylaaa forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. Meeekaaaylaaa Hi we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly MollyJRogers forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. MollyJRogers Hi Molly we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly GloriaBanks Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks Kirstentracy we have forwarded this to the pertaining area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. Kirstentracy Hello Kirsten thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that HRHPluck We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. HRHPluck We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. HRHPluck Hi Nicola we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. richgwalton improvements may be implemented. Thank you for your interest in our brand. richgwalton your feedback to the relevant department who will internally review this with the store so that any necessary richgwalton Hello Richard we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded blondie corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. blondie Hi thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the JackDodd consideration. Thank you for your interest in our brand. JackDodd rule this out in the future. We will share your comments to the relevant department for future JackDodd Hello Jack thank you for contacting us. We currently do not have plans to open a store in this location however do not clareskin We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. clareskin without the receipt as this is mandatory for the refundexchange. This is also stated in our Terms and Conditions. clareskin Hello Clare we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please be advised that returns cannot be processed for items AbdullaAlubaidy Hi please confirm your country of purchase so we may adequately assist you. Thank you. patribeltran cualquier mejora que sea necesaria. Por favor no publique datos privados como el nmero de pedido en pblico. Gracias. patribeltran su pedido ya ha sido entregado. Hemos enviado sus comentarios al departamento correspondiente para implementar patribeltran Hola Patricia. Lamentamos sinceramente los inconvenientes ocasionados. Segn nuestro sistema geuhurtado a travs de nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARACare. Gracias. geuhurtado no participa en este tipo de colaboraciones. Para futuras consultas no dude en contactarnos geuhurtado Hola. Agradecemos su inters en nuestra marca. Sin embargo queremos indicarle que nuestra empresa piluchina Hola Pilar. Hemos respondido al MD enviado a nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias. LucaFerracci Rimaniamo a tua disposizione per ulteriore assistenza tramite il nostro account ZARA Care. Grazie. LucaFerracci Ciao Luca ti confermiamo che i nostri articoli possono essere restituiti soltanto nello stesso paese dacquisto. bcgay Hi thanks for your reply. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to further assist you. Thanks. LoloPerez a nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. Gracias por tu colaboracin. LoloPerez competente para mejorar nuestro servicio. Para futuras consultas por favor escrbemos LoloPerez Hola Lolo. Sentimos que tu experiencia de compra no haya sido positiva. Trasladaremos esta informacin al departamento RAMtm Hi Rebecca we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. ChloeBoyes We kindly request that you DM us so that we may assist you further. Thank you. ChloeBoyes Hi Chloe please be advised to avoid disclosing sensitive information such as order numbers publicly. KIRKHARDING our services. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. KIRKHARDING We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve KIRKHARDING Hi Pauline we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. AlanaKStewart Hi we appreciate your encouraging feedback and will share it with the relevant team. Thanks for your interest in our brand. RAMtm so that we may assist you further. Thank you. RAMtm Hi Rebecca we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order order number ChloeMason Hi Chloe we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. KatieLilia for further consideration. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. KatieLilia We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department KatieLilia Hi Katie we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. BrittyKerr Hi kindly DM us through our ZARA Care account through the following link Thanks. bcgay Hi we are truly sorry. Please DM us more details including your order number or proof of purchase to further assist you. Thanks. hollieroseblog forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. hollieroseblog Hi Hollie we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly CHILLAX us from so that we may assist you further. Thank you. CHILLAX Hi thank you for contacting us. Kindly DM us with your query and the country you are contacting StyleSplurging pertaining area as our customers feedback is valuable to us. Thank you for your interest in our products. StyleSplurging Hi we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have now forwarded your comments to the paulinawid you with the requested information. Thanks. paulinawid Hi Paulina please DM us through our ZARA Care account with the full reference of the blouse so we can provide FrankieFerrari department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. FrankieFerrari Hello Francesca thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that this has been forwarded to the relevant FilipeGoverna This information can be found on the inner label under the barcode. Thanks. FilipeGoverna Hi Filipe kindly send us DM through our ZARA Care account with the full reference of the item so we can assist you. Iamcraiggeorge to the pertaining area as our customers feedback is valuable to us. Thank you for your interest in our brand. Iamcraiggeorge Hi Craig we are sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly be advised that we have forwarded your comments cribizzy Ciao inviaci per favore un MD al nostro account di ZARA Care con il tuo numero di ordine per ulteriore assistenza. Grazie. efed to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. efed Hi thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments wepluggoodmusic as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. wepluggoodmusic Hello thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that this has been forwarded to the relevant department stylingbyJE Hi Jessica thank you for your positive feedback. Rest assured we will forward this to the relevant department. Thank you. FashRevIndia We will get back to you shortly. Thank you. FashRevIndia Hi thank you for getting back to us. Your query has been forwarded to the corresponding department. AlanaKStewart Hi we would like you to know that your opinion is very important to us. We hope you revisit our website soon. Thanks. patribeltran para que podamos asistirle. Muchas gracias. patribeltran Hola Patricia. Tal y como le comentamos anteriormente le pedimos que nos indique su nmero de pedido lilblackpearls Hi Tiffany thanks for your interest. Kindly DM us your inquiry to assist you adequately. Thanks. lfrosenbaum Hi Leah thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. Cdg Hola Carolina. Por favor indquenos como le podemos asistir. Gracias. ImDShxt Hi thanks for your interest in your brand. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to further assist you. Thanks. Cdg a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter ZARACare. Gracias. Cdg Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude en contactar con nosotros Cdg Hola Carolina. Por favor indquenos el nmero del pedido para poder asistirle. NappyHeadedZoe Hi we apologize for the confusion. Please send us a DM to our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. BLOOMING Check new Woman editorial at zaraeditorial zarawoman Almucardenas lo ocurrido en la tienda para que podamos revisar el caso. Gracias. Almucardenas Hola por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care con ms detalles sobre ItsMineAnder La encontrars en la etiqueta interior bajo del cdigo de barras. Gracias. ItsMineAnder Hola Gasti. Envanos por favor un MD con la referencia del artculo para que podamos informarte. UdaneOlabarria La encontrars en la etiqueta interior bajo del cdigo de barras. Gracias. UdaneOlabarria Hola. Por favor envanos un MD con la referencia del artculo para que podamos informarte. maxinebuilder Hi Maxine thanks for your interest in our brand. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. ProudlyMIA You can find this below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. ProudlyMIA Hi please DM us the reference number of the items and we will be able to inform you. Nanetje on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry.Thank you. Nanetje Hi Nanette please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found xNaomiiBrownie on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry. Thank you. xNaomiiBrownie Hi Naomi please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found patribeltran nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter. Gracias. patribeltran En caso de futuras consultas no dude en contactarnos a travs de ZaraCare patribeltran Hola Patricia. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido. hollanna in our Code of Conduct that is why it is ranked with one of our highest social rating. Thanks. hollanna This factory has been recently audited and achieves our strict social standards you can check all of them hollanna Hi Anna this coat was made by WEIHAI TEXTILE GROUP IMPORT AND EXPORT CO.LTD in SHANDAONG CHINA. ValYMedio pasada. Te recomendamos este modelo de nueva coleccin que podra ser de tu inters Gracias. ValYMedio Hola. El artculo que te interesa no est disponible y no est prevista su reposicin ya que pertenece a una temporada NappyHeadedZoe may address the issue. We await your reply. Thanks. NappyHeadedZoe Hi we are deeply sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details including the date and time of your visit so we kellydillon Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks leannemacduff Hello Leanne we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further information so that we may adequately assist you. Thank you. MiikeyGrey Hi Mikey we are very happy to hear that. Please feel free to contact us via ZaraCare for any future inquiries. Thanks. carolinecfay goal. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into it. Thanks. carolinecfay Hello Caroline we are sorry about this since providing our customers with a positive shopping experience is our main HelloCVH assistance. Thanks. HelloCVH Hi Caitlin were glad we were able to meet your expectations. Please do not hesitate to contact us via Zara Care for further iConsciousCons You can find this below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. iConsciousCons Hi please DM us the reference number of the items and we will be able to inform you. BLOOMING Check new Woman editorial at zaraeditorial zarawoman misledthreads in our Code of Conduct that is why it is ranked with one of our highest social rating. Thanks. misledthreads This factory has been recently audited and achieves our strict social standards you can check all of them misledthreads Hi Kim it was made by SHANTOU CITY CHENGHAI DISTRICT XIN DE INDUSTRIAL CO.LTD in GUANGDONG CHINA. adrienneldn experience so that we may assist you. Thank you. adrienneldn Hi Adrienne we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We kindly request that you DM us further details of your naomiwood store to home as this is not a service we provide. We apologise for any inconvenience caused. Thank you. naomiwood Hello Naomi thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we are unable to change the delivery method from FranStaff information in regards to this so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. FranStaff Hello we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further SayantaniS that is why they are ranked with one of our highest social rating. Thanks. SayantaniS our strict social standards you can check all of them in our Code of Conduct SayantaniS ORLEX SOC. DE CONFECCOES LTD in Pacos de Ferreira Portugal. Both factories have been recently audited and achieve SayantaniS Hi Tshirt ref. was made by MARSOTEX SARL in Tanger Morocco and Tshirt ref. was made by Pmurphyx picture or the reference number of the item so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Pmurphyx Hi thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly request that you DM us with a FrausMarie You can find this below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. FrausMarie Hi Mariel please DM us the reference number of the items and we will be able to inform you. JanisLGalloway on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry.Thank you. JanisLGalloway Hi Janis please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found FashRevIndia This can be found below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. FashRevIndia Hi please DM us the reference number of the item and we will be able to inform you. BLOOMING New woman editorial just released at zaraeditorial zarawoman juskvreem We will be happy to assist in case of future queries. Thank you. juskvreem Hi Kareem we are glad to hear about this. Please feel free to contact us anytime via Zara Care. cudgeecoo on our website Thank you. cudgeecoo Hi Paul thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is currently available Baby girl summer collection now available All over print dress zarababy zaraeditorial misledthreads You can find this below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. misledthreads Hi Kim please DM us the reference number of the items and we will be able to inform you. pettyassbish Hi thanks for your interest in our brand. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. Sellenraad Hi Kelsey we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the time and the location you visited to further assist you. Thanks. JenniferVP necesidades de nuestros clientes. Quedamos a tu disposicin a travs de nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente ZARA Care. JenniferVP Hola Jennifer. Trasladaremos tus comentarios al rea de Producto ya que intentamos adaptar nuestro tallaje a las lenaclaire Hi Claire we are sorry to hear this. Please DM us further details including the stores location so we may assist. Thanks. kkxmb Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details including your order number to further assist you. Thanks. JaniceGilfillan so that we may assist you further. Thank you. JaniceGilfillan Hi Janice we are sorry to hear this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number StarokeyBean We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. StarokeyBean Hi Amy we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. Ready to catch the wave Baby boy summer collection now available zarababy zaraeditorial TrueBeckykat which is available online. Thank you. TrueBeckykat similar item of your interest. We recommend that you view item ref. TrueBeckykat and is not expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit our New In section where you may find a TrueBeckykat Hi Becky thank you for showing an interest in our products. Kindly be advised that this item belongs to our past season AArmstrongsays Customer Services who have provided you with a resolution. Thank you for your patience. AArmstrongsays Hi we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We can confirm our system illustrates that you contacted our Online etaylorroberts Thank you for your interest in our products. etaylorroberts Hi Ellie kindly be advised that the item ref. is currently available online and can be found on this link ClothandUs You can find this below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. ClothandUs Hi Koshe please DM us the reference number of the items and we will be able to inform you. bljah on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry.Thank you. bljah Hi Eva please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found FuenD Hola. Sentimos que esa sea tu impresin. Envanos por favor un MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care para ayudarte. Gracias. SayantaniS You can find this below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thanks. SayantaniS Hi please DM us the reference number of the items and we will be able to inform you. FashRevNld on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry. Thank you. FashRevNld Hi please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found Maderom Bonjour Marine nhsitez pas nous fournir plus dinformations ce sujet par MD notre compte ZARA Care. Merci. GCBittante Hi Gabriella we can confirm that we have responded to you via our ZARA Care account. Thank you. elenitadcl poder ayudarte. Si se trata de una compra online indcanos tambin el nmero de pedido. Gracias. elenitadcl Hola. Envanos por favor un MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care confirmando si se trata de una compra online o en tienda para Printed flowing jumpsuit Baby girl summer collection now available zarababy zaraeditorial NormvnTvm with the relevant department for further consideration. Thank you. NormvnTvm Hi Norman thanks for your interest in our brand. We truly appreciate your comments and will share them pivoine Hi we would like you to know that your opinion is very important to us. We hope you revisit our website soon. Thanks. pfranckiewicz Hi Paige please DM us further details at Zaracare regarding your query so we may better assist you. Thanks. patmendivil a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter ZARACare. Muchas gracias. patmendivil con ms detalles para poder asistirle. Para ms informacin sobre este u otros asuntos no dude en contactar con nosotros patmendivil Hola Patricia. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado AlexLianopoulos Hi thanks for letting us know. For further queries please contact us via our ZaraCare account. Thank you. hollanna We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. hollanna Hi Anna please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. Southern air bows polka dots. New woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial Sarahlikesfoodd department so that we may improve our services. Thank you. Sarahlikesfoodd sizes Please note your comments have been shared with the relevant Sarahlikesfoodd Hello Sarah we can confirm that this item ref is currently available online in all abrahaammusica a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente ZARA Care en Facebook. Muchas gracias. abrahaammusica Esperamos que vuelva a visitar nuestra pgina web muy pronto. Para futuras consultas estamos a su disposicin abrahaammusica Hola Abraham. Gracias por los comentarios que nos ha hecho llegar. inmarincon con ms datos sobre lo sucedido como cundo ha sucedido esto. Gracias. inmarincon Hola. Sentimos lo que nos comentas. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care BrittyKerr Hi please DM us further details regarding your query so we may better assist you. Thanks. pbells replenished. We apologise for the inconvenience caused. Thank you. pbells Hello thank you for your product query. Please be advised that the desired item is sold out and will not be gentlefoot queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. gentlefoot to the relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. For future gentlefoot Hi James we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm we have forwarded your comments izarobyn Hi thanks for contacting us. Please send a DM with your order number so we may look into it. Thanks. AlexLianopoulos Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details order number so we can review it. Thanks. Wowagurl Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. IamLauraT Hi Laura please be advised that we are able to receive Direct Messages. We can confirm that we are now following you. Thank you. LydiaTaylor please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. LydiaTaylor pertaining area as this helps us to improve our services. For future queries LydiaTaylor Hi Lydia we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm we have forwarded your comments to the Southern air New Woman editorial now available in our stores and online zarawoman zaraeditorial tashdoherty including your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. IamLauraT or online. If online please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. IamLauraT Hi Laura thank you for contacting us. We kindly ask you to confirm whether the item was purchased instore TristinAndTyler Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us via Zara Care for future queries. Thanks kizerandbender Hi please be advised that our DM is open for all customer service inquiries via our ZaraCare account. Thanks. Sarahlikesfoodd or the reference number of the item you are enquiring so that we may further assist you. Thank you. Sarahlikesfoodd Hello Sarah we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We kindly ask you to DM us a picture SAFDeluxe online Thank you. SAFDeluxe Hi Sarah thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is currently available nicolelatchana You can find it below the barcode on the inner labels of the item. Thank you. nicolelatchana Hi Nicole please provide us with the reference number of the item to be able to assist you. MaiSylv Zara Care account Thank you. MaiSylv assess it and advise you accordingly. For future queries please refer to our MaiSylv kindly advise you to visit your local Zara store at your earliest convenience where a senior staff member will be able MaiSylv Hi Maisie we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. We sarahedeloneill We will gladly assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. sarahedeloneill Hi Sarah kindly DM us the items full reference number located on the inner label below the barcode. fosngo We zullen u dan informeren. Bedankt. fosngo Hi stuurt u ons alstublieft het referentie nummer van het artikel in een DM. U kunt dit vinden op het kaartje onder de barcode. dejavierlopez Hola Javier. Sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. vnlvn so we may assist you further. Thank you. vnlvn Hello please send us a DM with more details to our ZARA Care account and confirm also the country you are contacting us from InfoVeganized Hola Yasira. Por favor indcanos la referencia de la prenda para poder darte ms informacin. Muchas gracias. Dress with fringes for a southern air Woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial TrevorJarvis Hi Trevor we certainly regret your disappointment. Please DM us further details so we can look into it on our end. Thanks. MsAndreaS Hi Andie thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us your inquiry through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Kids girls editorial Play laugh its a summer ride zarakids zaraeditorial TheSikhest managing your case details. They will be in touch with you shortly. Thank you for your understanding. TheSikhest Hi we honestly apologise for any inconvenience caused. Our system records indicate the relevant Store Team is already sarahkarver on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry.Thank you. sarahkarver Hi Sarah please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found LauraChiche politique nous vous invitons consulter le site dInditex Merci. LauraChiche Bonjour Laura ce compte est destin exclusivement au service client. Pour de plus amples informations concernant notre wyldeclifford department we will update you once further details become available. Thank you. wyldeclifford Hi Niamh thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your query to the corresponding Lets go for a summer ride. Kids girls editorial zarakids zaraeditorial mrrynomite must follow the stringent requirements of our Code of Conduct. Kind regards. mrrynomite Hi Ryan this Tshirt was made by OYKUSU TEKSTIL in Izmir Turkey. All the factories we work with silviasilva the stringent requirements of our Code of Conduct. Kind regards. silviasilva Hi Silvia this dress was made by ALAE WELTMARK SARL in Tanger Morocco. All the factories we work with must follow rachelwalkerr or instore within the returns period month from the date of shipment. Thank you. rachelwalkerr the relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. Please note that you may return your item via online rachelwalkerr Hello Rachel we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that your feedback has been shared with Keelyroseee pertaining area as our customers experience is important to us. Thanks for taking the time to pass on your feedback. Keelyroseee Hi Keely we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have now forwarded your comments to the EvaVeraDesign We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. EvaVeraDesign Hi Eva please DM us the items full reference number which is located on the inner label below the barcode. megpratty in the sizes M and L We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. megpratty Hello Megan thank you for your recent query. We can confirm that this item ref is currently available online xxxxxxxxxoxxx cdigo na etiqueta interior debaixo do cdigo de barras. A nossa equipa dar o devido seguimento sua consulta. xxxxxxxxxoxxx Ol. Por favor envienos uma mensagem privada com a referncia completa do artigo a ZARA Care. Poder encontrar este DaniSan novedades de la web. Recuerda que para futuras consultas estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. DaniSan Gracias. El artculo que nos indicas est agotado ya que pertenece a una temporada pasada. Te sugerimos que revises las silviaaromano Hola Silvia. Por favor indcanos la referencia de la prenda para poder darte ms informacin. Muchas gracias. megpratty relevant department and will contact you shortly with an update. Thank you. megpratty Hello thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we have forwarded your query to the DaniSan Hola. Confrmanos por favor el pas desde el que nos ests contactando para poder ayudarte. Gracias. Lablahblahblah Hola Marianna. Por favor indcanos la referencia de la prenda para poder darte ms informacin. Gracias. worldfinds We will gladly assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. worldfinds Hello kindly DM us the items full reference number located on the inner label below the barcode. Time for fun its sunny. Kids girls new editorial zaraeditorial zarakids whodreamedit back if you have any further queries. Thanks. whodreamedit HI Kia thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us FreelyMi If you have any further queries do not hesitate to contact us via our Zara Care account. Thanks. FreelyMi Hi Michelle we appreciate your interest in our products. ThomasPrice details of your query so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. ThomasPrice Hello Tom we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further Polka dots stripes poplin romantic colour palette. Are you into nautical vibes zarawoman zaraeditorial lmaciste en el telfono gratuito . Muchas gracias. whodreamedit are receiving so we may look into this for you. We await your reply. Thanks. lmaciste o de pedidos por motivos de seguridad. Para poder asistirte por favor contacta con nuestro departamento de online whodreamedit Hi Kia were sorry to hear this. Please provide us further details at Zaracare including any error messages that you lmaciste Gracias por la informacin facilitada Javier. No obstante desaconsejamos publicar datos personales silviasilva We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. silviasilva Hi Silvia kindly DM us the items full reference number located in the inner label below the barcode. chicnshout the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. chicnshout Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below PecksinFL We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. PecksinFL Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. camjakuch Bonjour vous pouvez retourner les articles achets en magasin dans toutes les boutiques du mme pays que celui de lachat. Merci jaymichaels Hi thank you for letting us know. Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks. sadiecakesx Hi Sades thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have information regarding this. Thank you. JazmineIleen Hi Jazmine this truly concerns us. Kindly DM us at Zaracare with further details so we may address this matter. Thanks. SlaveryIndex below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thank you. SlaveryIndex Hello kindly provide us with the reference number of the tee to be able to inform you. You can find it jemmasimmonsy with us in the future and would like to thank you for your interest in our products. jemmasimmonsy Hi Sarah we are glad to read that you are enjoying the shirt. We hope that you keep shopping nanpeacock Hi Nancie we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your feedback. Thanks arlinavanessa We will gladly assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. arlinavanessa Hi Arlina please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. amaa Hi we have replied to your DM. Thanks. abbieploeser Hi Abbie hearing this concerns us. Please DM more details so we may look into this. Thanks. kizerandbender Hi this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we may look into this. Thanks. iREALone que vous trouverez sur ltiquette intrieure sous le codebarres afin que nous puissions vous renseigner. Merci. iREALone Bonjour merci de nous envoyer par MD notre compte ZARA Care la rfrence complte de larticle Ellie Hi Ellie we are sorry to hear that. Please send us a DM with more details to our ZARA Care account to further assist. Thanks. TheShowOff this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. TheShowOff Hi we appreciate your positive feedback. We have forwarded your comments to the pertaining department as danimal Hi Dan we answered your DM. Thank you. davesaid the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. davesaid Hi David please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below WalkFreeFdn the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. WalkFreeFdn Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below Peplum its a nautical vibe New woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial zarawoman zaraeditorial LouisCee Hi Louis if there is anything we can help with please feel free to message us back with further details. Thank you. oliviammercer Hi Olivia in order to better assist you with your query please message us back with further details. Thank you. thatsNathan hope your next experience with us will be a positive one. Thank you for your interest in our brand. thatsNathan with the pertaining department and the branch itself so that any necessary improvements may be implemented. We thatsNathan Hi we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that your comments will be shared EbonyGeorgiaS further assist you. If you do not have your order number please send us your billing address. Thank you. EbonyGeorgiaS Hello Ebony thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number and correct email address so that we may michielvdsch in een prive bericht naar onze Facebook pagina Zara Care. Daar zullen wij u verder helpen. Bedankt. michielvdsch Hallo Michiel graag vragen wij om uw gegevens email telefoon nummer en een foto van uw bewijs van aankoop lmaciste al Cliente en Twitter ZARA Care con ms datos y tu nmero de pedido para que podamos ayudarte. Muchas gracias. lmaciste Hola Javier sentimos tu descontento. Por favor envamos un MD a nuestra cuenta de Atencin ebrutastan Bu durumu inceleyebilmemiz iin ltfen iletiim bilgilerinizi ve olaya ilikin daha fazla ayrnty DM ie iletin. Teekkrler. cofrade la localizacin de la tienda en cuestin para que podamos revisarlo internamente. Gracias. cofrade Hola Javier. Sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care e incluye tambin JujuBertaglia below the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. JujuBertaglia Hi Giuliane please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label evervogue We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. evervogue Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. pforpelin Merhaba byle dndnz iin zgnz. Sizlere yardmc olabilmemiz adna ltfen daha fazla detay DM ile iletin. Teekkrler. sophiewalkerr Thank you for bringing this to our attention. sophiewalkerr apologise for the inconvenience caused as our customers experience is very important to us. sophiewalkerr and your feedback will be managed internally with our Zara branch to prevent this from reoccurring. We sincerely sophiewalkerr Hi Sophie thank you for your response. We kindly confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the pertaining area Nautical vibes with a femenine touch Woman editorial now availble online and instores zarawoman zaraeditorial alicenorman DM us more details of your query so that we may assist you further. Thank you. svendimonaco damit wir den Vorfall prfen knnen. Vielen Dank svendimonaco Hallo Sven bitte teilen Sie uns nhere Details in einer direkten Nachricht auf Zara Care mit FernandoRJasso Por favor contctenos a travs de ZARA Care en Facebook en caso de futuras consultas. Muchas gracias. FernandoRJasso mientras que se trate del mismo pas en que se realiz la compra. Esperamos que esta informacin le resulte til. FernandoRJasso Hola Fernando. Le informamos que usted puede realizar devoluciones en cualquier sucursal jaymichaels Kindly DM us the location you visited to further assist you. Thanks. jaymichaels Hi Jay thanks for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. emmylouhays to our ZARA Care account confirming the country of purchase so we may assist you further. Thanks. emmylouhays Hi Emily we are sorry to hear that as all our products undergo strict quality control procedures. Please send us a DM hannahouimet ZARA Home through the following link We hope you find this information useful. Thanks. hannahouimet Hi Hannah thanks for contacting ZARA. Please note that you have reached ZARA Apparel. We recommend contacting Smile and have fun a long summer day. New boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids freedomisst Hi please DM us with further details about your query so we may take a look into this. Thank you. majorkie Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we can take a look into it. Thank you. beaner Hi we are truly sorry about this. Kindly DM us your order number to further assist you. Thanks. rosaliebaan Hallo Roos graag willen wij u informeren dat wij u antwoord hebben gegeven in een prive bericht. Bedankt. philipineface Hi this truly concerns us. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Damilolaa to our ZARA Care account so we may review this. Thank you. Damilolaa Hello your comments really concern us. Please send us a DM with more details including the location of the store TheKit Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. julialeonetti Hi Julia we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry so we may further assist you. Thanks. macmillan Please DM us via our Customer Service account so that we may assist you. Thank you. macmillan Hello please accept our apologies for the misunderstanding. chloecairnsX area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. chloecairnsX Hi Chlo we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm we have forwarded your comments to the pertaining A long summer day New boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids zaraeditorial sophiewalkerr store location so that we may assist you. Thank you. Alonsovj otra consulta estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. Alonsovj a que pruebes nuestra aplicacin InWallet que te permitir el pago de tus compras a travs de un cdigo QR. Para cualquier Alonsovj Hola Alonso. Te informamos de que el pago contactless slo est disponible a travs del servicio Apple Pay. Te invitamos Charlkimpton if this item was purchased instore or online. If online please provide the order number. Thank you. Charlkimpton Hello we apologise for this as all of our products go through strict quality controls. Please DM us confirming ElenaRomero Hola. Podemos ayudarte desde aqu No dudes en enviarnos ms informacin por MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. adamboyle Zara Care account Thank you. adamboyle imilar item of your interest. For future queries please refer to our adamboyle online with no plans of future replenishment. We kindly suggest that you visit our New In section where you may find a adamboyle Hi Maddy thank you for showing an interest in our products. Please be advised that item ref. is out of stock CAshy Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. CAshy Hi Chelsea your comments concern us and we would like to apologise for this. rosaliebaan Alvast bedankt. rosaliebaan Dag roos bedankt voor uw bericht. Kunt u ons in een priv bericht uw ordernummer doorgeven. Zodat we u veder kunnen helpen. macmillan We kindly ask you to forward your comments to Zara Home Thank you. macmillan Hello please be advised that your query has come through to Zara Customer Services. mirzaheline Bonjour nous avons rpondu votre MD. Merci. anicccca contact our Customer Care account on Twitter ZARA Care. Thanks. anicccca criteria. However we appreciate your comment and will forward it to the relevant department. For further queries you can anicccca Hello our store opening times for each country are established based on commercial decisions that consider different TroyMunns query as we only deal with Zara customer service queries. Thank you. TroyMunns Hi Troy we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. As previously advised we kindly request that you redirect your A long summer day New boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids zaraeditorial ommorphia Hi Eugenia we have responded via DM. Thanks. Helenwrites regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist accordingly. Thank you. Helenwrites Hello Helen we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information in livhawkins further details of your query so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. livhawkins Hello Olivia thank you for contacting us. We kindly ask you to DM us your order number and thebufandalife Hello Belen please confirm the country you are contacting us from for further assistance. Thanks. LorenaMaside llegue y te llegar un email cuando est disponible. Quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. LorenaMaside Hola. En principio est prevista su reposicin en una semana aproximadamente. Puedes usar la opcin Avsame cuando Here comes the sun made for sun TRF editorial zaratrf zaraeditorial zaratrf TroyMunns kindly suggest that you forward your query to Zara Home for further assistance. Thank you. TroyMunns Hi Troy thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that your query has come through to Zara Customer Services. We mytortz to improve our services. Thank you. mytortz permitted in our stores. Kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your feedback to the pertaining area as it helps us mytortz Hi we are sorry to hear this. In the interest of our customers and due to health and safety food and drinks are not doinasaurus Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Your feedback is much appreciated. Thanks for your interest ZARA. alanabrooke Hi Alana we have replied via DM. Thanks. ZackAttackk Hi Zack for future queries please feel free to contact our Zara Care account. Thanks. ZackAttackk However we do not participate in this type of collaboration at this time. Thanks. ZackAttackk Hi Zack your suggestion will be forwarded for consideration. BestStyleBlog Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks. BestStyleBlog Hi Sarah thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Spring mood made for sun TRF editorial now available online and instores floral and tropical prints zaratrf ommorphia Hi Eugenia this really concerns us. Please DM us with further details so we can take a look into this. Thanks. typotit may be implemented. We hope your next experience with us will be a positive one. Thank you. typotit to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself so that any necessary improvements typotit Hello we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback Channell Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. For future inquires please contact us via Zara Care. Thanks MissLACullen Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. CopyKT browsing data or use a different web browser. Thank you. CopyKT download our Zara app which is more userfriendly. Alternatively we kindly suggest to clear your CopyKT Hello Katie thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that if you are using a mobile or tablet we suggest that you GoonerGuy Hi please be advised that we are unable to locate store stock via this platform. We kindly suggest that you contact our dxnnielle an effort to maintain a consistent appearance across all of our branches. Thank you for your understanding. dxnnielle is a positive one. Due to our store policy we are unable to provide customers with the merchandise from our display. In dxnnielle managed internally with our Zara branch to prevent this from reoccurring. We hope that your next experience with us is dxnnielle Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback which will be simplysham regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. simplysham Hello Shamilla we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information in Adonisgreen that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. Adonisgreen your feedback to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself so Adonisgreen Hello Adonis we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded RozahP Bonjour Rozah pourriezvous nous fournir plus dinformations ce sujet en nous crivant un MD notre compte ZARA Care Merci. KimchiLipstick Nous vous invitons les contacter directement depuis leur site Merci. KimchiLipstick Bonjour Marjorie bien que faisant partie du mme groupe Zara et Zara Home sont deux marques indpendantes. Picotera Gracias por tu mensaje. Trasladaremos tu comentario al rea correspondiente para que se tenga en cuenta. Muchas gracias Andrea. theHannahButler Hello Hannah we can confirm that we are now following you. Thank you. legano is sold out online and will not be replenished. We kindly ask you to check with your local store. Thank you. legano Hello thank you for your patience. Please be advised that item ref. Time for sun clothes made for sun TRF editorial floral prints and shorts zaratrf zaraeditorial deysannah Just tap on the envelope icon on your twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks deysannah Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. emcrawf Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Please note that this platform is exclusively designed to assist our customers. Thanks. Man editorial tailoring. Formal suits to wear this season. Navy grey pale blue zaraman SoYinka Hi thanks for your interest. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to our ZARA Care account. Thanks. theHannahButler your email address and phone number. We will be happy to assist you further. Thank you. theHannahButler We kindly ask you to DM us further details including the store location theHannahButler Hello Hannah this deeply concerns us. Please accept our sincere apologies for the inconvenience caused. lepetitpatito por favor la referencia para poder responderte adecuadamente. Gracias. lepetitpatito y Cuidados localizada debajo de las fotos de cada prenda. Si tiene dudas sobre algn artculo en concreto indcanos lepetitpatito Hola puedes comprobar las instrucciones de lavado especficos para cada artculo clicando en la opcin Composicin legano with the relevant department and we will provide you with further information as soon as possible. Thank you. legano Hello thank you for your product query. Please be advised that we are currently investigating BarryLoweMCR Thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. JesNudabite Hi Jessica we are sorry you feel this way. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to further assist you. Thanks. BarryLoweMCR comments to the pertaining area and to the Trafford branch itself in order to implement any necessary improvements. BarryLoweMCR Hi Barry we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. We have now forwarded your deysannah Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. girANAmo Hi Ana we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Man editorial tailoring. Relaxed looks to enjoy this spring. White pannacotta pale pink zaraman thaddeusford Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have further queries. Thanks. AnaBravs que sin duda trasladaremos al departamento correspondiente para implementar las mejoras oportunas. Gracias. AnaBravs Hola Ana. Sentimos que esta haya sido tu experiencia en nuestra tienda. Agradecemos tus comentarios HeyJessGray via our Zara Care account in case you require assistance anytime. Thanks. HeyJessGray Hi Jess we are happy to see we were able to meet your expectations. Please do not hesitate to contact us katlinmcgrath Hi Katlin this truly concerns us. Please DM us with the order details via Zara Care so we may review this. Thanks. ZOEBIN of purchase as per our terms and conditions. Thank you for your understanding. ZOEBIN Hi Zoe kindly be advised that all instore purchases have to be returned or exchanged in one our branches in the same country TheJaneTales future queries. Thank you. TheJaneTales Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Please do not hesitate to contact us via Zara Care in case of andreonnink Dag Andre we hebben op uw DM gereageerd. Het spijt ons dat we u hier niet mee verder kunnen helpen. taylorswiftwbu so that we may assist you further. Thank you. taylorswiftwbu Hello we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We kindly ask you to DM us further details edwin Please submit your query through the contact form of your countrys web Thanks. edwin Thanks for your reply. Please note this customer service account is not available for Panama yet. ChannerAmanda Hi kindly be advised that we have now replied to your DM. Thanks. adriinfantino this out in the future. We have forwarded this to the pertaining area as it helps us to improve our services. Thanks. adriinfantino Hi Adriana kindly be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this location but do not rule Man editorial tailoring. Relaxed looks to enjoy this spring. White pannacotta pale pink zaraman Winzton Ihnen bei Ihrem Anliegen weiterhelfen knnen. Vielen Dank. Winzton finden.Bitte besttigen Sie uns Ihre Bestellnummer oder EMail Adresse in einer privaten Nachricht auf Zara Care damit wir Winzton Hallo Winston vielen Dank fr Ihre Rckmeldung. Leider konnten wir keine Bestellung unter der von Ihnen angegebenen Nummer kenzeyjanex our services. Thanks for your interest in our brand. kenzeyjanex Hi Kenzey kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as it helps us to improve finess Hi please DM us your order number to our customer service account ZARA Care account so we may further assist you. Thank you. Winzton Bestellnummer bekannt zu geben. Vielen Dank . Winzton Hallo vielen Dank fr Ihre Nachricht. Um Ihnen bei Ihrem Anliegen weiterhelfen zu knnen bitten wir Sie uns Ihre MeryIglesiasS Trasladaremos tu sugerencia al departamento correspondiente. Buen da Mara. aslLouisal Hi please send us a DM via ZARA Care on Twitter with further details including the country of purchase. Thank you. POOLCORN wird bearbeitet. Fr weitere Fragen knnen Sie uns gerne eine private Nachricht auf Zara Care schreiben. Vielen Dank. POOLCORN Hallo vielen Dank fr Ihre Nachricht. Wir mchten uns fr Ihre Anregung bedanken. Der Fehler wurde bereits weitergeleitet und SmithEmma forwarded to our Lakeside branch. We thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. SmithEmma with the store management. As per our previous messages we can confirm that your comments and suggestions have been duly SmithEmma our customers feedback in order to improve our services and to ensure that this kind of matter is being directly dealt SmithEmma Hi Emma we are truly sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly be advised that we are certainly reviewing all edwin Hello please confirm the country of purchase so we may assist you further. Thank you. haluksyl Merhaba sorgunuzu en hzl ekilde ele alabilmemiz iin ltfen konu hakknda detayl bilgiyi bize DM ile iletin. Teekkrler thaddeusford We will most certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. thaddeusford Hi please note your comments are much appreciated as they are an essential part of our continued effort to improve. teresaktraverse on our website We hope you find this information useful. Thank you. teresaktraverse Hello Teresa thanks for your interest in our brand.Regarding your query please refer to the following link tifftess location and date and time of your visit. We await your reply. Thanks. tifftess Hi thank you for bringing this to our attention. Please DM us at ZaraCare with further details including the stores lewarsjoanna order number so that we may further assist you. Thank you. lewarsjoanna ask you to DM us to confirm if this item was purchases instore or online. If online please send us your lewarsjoanna Hello Joanna we are sorry to hear this as our products undergo strict quality controls before distribution. We kindly maredemlynparry that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. maredemlynparry your feedback to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself so maredemlynparry Hello Mared we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded MoggGemma number so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. MoggGemma Hello Gemma we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please DM us your order debbinhapinto department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. debbinhapinto Hello Debbie thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that your comments will be shared with the relevant shariberhane Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Please note that this platform is exclusively designed to assist our customers. Thanks. MeryIglesiasS remitir tu futuras consultas a travs de ZARA Care en Twitter. Buen da Mara. MeryIglesiasS Hola. El cuerpo volante combinado ref. se encuentra agotado online sin previsin de futura reposicin. Puedes MisterMaddox Hola. Gracias por tu inters en Zara. Sin embargo nuestra compaa no participa en este tipo de colaboraciones. Gracias. raquelperezzz Hola Raquel. Envanos un MD con ms datos y nmero de pedido a nuestra cuenta en Twitter ZARA Care para ayudarte. Gracias. gallacher provide. As previously advised we kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on . Thank you. gallacher Hi Chloe please be informed that we are unable to accommodate your request as this is not a service we currently AwsmLwsn this for you. Thanks. AwsmLwsn Hi we regret your disappointment. Please DM us at ZaraCare with the product you are referring to so we may look into TweetLeni Hi Leni were glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks gallacher visit your nearest Zara store. Thanks. gallacher replenished online. For store availability you may contact our store support team on or you may directly gallacher Hi Chloe thank you for your patience. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is now out of stock and will be not RVT may provide you with further information. Thank you. RVT Hello Rachel thank you for contacting us. We kindly ask you to DM us your query so that we vonedar Bonjour nous vous prions de bien vouloir nous indiquer par MD notre compte ZARA Care votre numro de commande. Merci. EtsieNare Hello thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may further assist you. Thank you. gallacher shortly with more information. Thank you for your patience. gallacher Hi Chloe thank you for your interest in our brand. We are currently looking into your query and we will get back to you MbrownMoo a similar item likely to interest you. Thank you. MbrownMoo with no replenishment. We kindly recommend you to check the Newin section of our website where you can possibly find MbrownMoo Hi Molly thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is sold out online MagalieJoliveau Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans le magasin de votre choix pour consulter sa disponibilit sur place. Merci. MagalieJoliveau Bonjour la robe avec Rf. est puise sur notre site et elle ne sera en principe plus disponible. EvaMcq llamando al . Gracias por tu inters en nuestra marca. EvaMcq Hola Eva. Para ms informacin sobre nuestra tarjeta Affinity puedes contactar con el servicio de atencin al cliente beadlty CEPF y Oxfam. Puedes encontrar ms informacin en el enlace siguiente Gracias. beadlty Hola. Te confirmamos que toda la ropa recogida a travs de nuestra red de tiendas se dona directamente a Critas Cruz Roja sharmasid Thanks for getting back to us Siddharth. As mentioned we would be happy to assist you via Zara Care on Twitter. Thank you. AnaMarieLugo to be opened in the fall. We apologize that there is no exact date at this time. We hope this is helpful. Thank you. AnaMarieLugo Hi Ana thanks for your interest in our brand. Please be advised that our new location in Buffalo is scheduled VarsityK Hi please forward the details via our ZaraCare DM so we may escalate this query. We await your reply. Thanks. anadelangel Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. anadelangel avisame cuando puedas de la talla deseada para que recib una notificacin tan pronto el artculo este disponible. anadelangel Sin embargo se prev que se reponga en las prximas semanas. Le invitamos a que facilite sus datos en la opcin anadelangel Hola. En respuesta a su consulta le informamos de que el artculo con refencia no se encuentra disponible. DadaBen or take part in these initiatives. Thank you for your understanding and for your interest in our brand. DadaBen Hello thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that Zara does not collaborate thaddeusford Hi Thaddeus we inform you that our Oil on Denim collection is available only in the TRF section at this time. Thanks. MeryIglesiasS Hola Mara. Hemos trasladado tu consulta a nuestro departamento de producto y en breve te daremos una respuesta. Gracias. VarsityK Hi please send us a DM with the reference number and size of the item in question. We will be glad to assist. Thanks. TRF oilondenim Limited collection in collaboration with Mercedes Bellido available online zaratrf mandi store. Thank you for your interest in our products. mandi our store support team on for further assistance. Alternatively you may directly visit the nearest Zara mandi Hi Mandy please be advised that we are unable to locate store stock via this platform. We kindly suggest that you contact JesseJessen Hi DM us more details to our ZARA Care account including the country you are contacting us from to further assist. Thanks. jd original condition within the days returns period and the corresponding receipt is presented. Thank you. jd Hi Josh thank you for your response. As previously advised a refund may be processed ensuring that the item is in TiffRiedel Hi Tiffany please note that we have replied to you via DM. Thanks. daniellebakerr return your unwanted items. Thank you. daniellebakerr Hi Danielle thank you for your response. We can confirm that you may go into any Zara store to jd original condition within the days return period and the corresponding receipt is present. Thank you. jd Hi Josh thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that returns may be processed instore ensuring that the item is in its TRF oilondenim Limited collection in collaboration with Ricardo Cavolo available online zaratrf daniellebakerr our Zara Care account. Thank you. daniellebakerr store the return must also be processed in store. For future queries please refer to daniellebakerr exchanges. Items must be in their original condition with the corresponding receipt. As the item was purchased in daniellebakerr Hi Danielle thank you for contacting us. Please be advised you have days from your purchase date for any returns inodiii Hi please confirm the country of purchase so we may adequately assist. Thanks. javichusoy Hola. Agradecemos tu inters en nuestra marca. Sin embargo Zara no participa en este tipo de colaboraciones. Gracias. laprincesitaPM futuras consultas estamos disponibles a travs de ZARA Care en Twitter. Gracias. laprincesitaPM Hola. Puede revisar la ofertas de trabajo actualmente disponibles a travs del portal Para romkim Hi we have answered your DM. Thanks. SmithEmma us improve our services. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. SmithEmma we pride ourselves on. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps SmithEmma Hi Emma thank you for your response. We apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused as this is not the service TRF oilondenim Limited collection in collaboration with Mario de Santiago available online zaratrf houseofpearl website for similar styles. Thank you. houseofpearl is not expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit the New In section on our houseofpearl Hi Lisa thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that item ref. is sold out online and EsmaAkts Hallo Esma wir haben Ihnen bereits in einer privaten Nachricht auf Zara Care geantwortet. Vielen Dank. BMerida Hola Inma. Podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. MarcDermott Thank you for your understanding. MarcDermott We can confirm that food and drink is not allowed in our stores to avoid accidental damage. MarcDermott Hi Marc we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. EsmaAkts knnen Sie uns gerne eine private Nachricht auf Zara Care schreiben. Vielen Dank. EsmaAkts Ihnen bei Ihrem Anliegen weiterzuhelfen. Fr weitere Fragen EsmaAkts Hi Esma wir bitten Sie den Artikel in eine unserer Filialen zu bringen wo Ihnen unsere Mitarbeiter zur Verfgung stehen um aramvandit Hola Aram. Sentimos los inconvenientes ocasionados. Por favor envenos ms informacin por MD para poder asistirle. Gracias. maeganclark unwashed and inside tags still attached. We hope this helps. Thanks. maeganclark Hi Maegan all return must be made within month from the date of shipping confirmation. Items must be unworn RajmaOohLala Hi please send us a DM with your order number. We would like to review it with the pertaining area. Thanks. IAmShayT Hi Shaylan thanks for your interest in ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. ebk Hi please DM us your order number at ZaraCare so we may further assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. philtorres Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks MissChanelws Should you require further assistance please do not hesitate to DM us. Thank you. MissChanelws Hi Chanel we are sorry to hear of your impression as assisting customers is our top priority. SmithEmma we may assist you further. Thank you. hemangasarma Hi please note that we have replied via your previous twitter account. Thanks. KamillahRose consistency with all customers we are unable to accommodate your request. Thank you. KamillahRose Hello we certainly regret your disagreement with our return policy. However in an attempt to maintain a level of Rachelleb Hi Rachelle were sorry to hear this. Please DM us your email address and phone number so we may assist you. Thanks. PHATFRANKY your visit to the store so we may address this matter. Thanks. PHATFRANKY Hi Franky were truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us at ZaraCare with further details including the date and time of ebk Please visit for further details. Thanks. ebk Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Please be advised that the delivery time frame is dependent on the shipping method selected. TheNoseyPanda We are sorry to hear this Layne. We have shared your comments with the relevant areas for their internal review. Thank you. Autenticamia Para futuras consultas puede contactar a travs de Zara Care nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter. Gracias Autenticamia Hola. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con ms detalles acerca de lo sucedido. lozaisaac Hola. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles acerca de lo sucedido. Gracias. ashecorven le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. ashecorven Hola Alberto. Por favor indquenos como le podemos asistir. Para futuras consultas IMthePrincess Hi Tori no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. Laaineeee Hi please DM us your query to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may address your concern. Thanks. sharmasid this matter. We await your reply. Thanks. sharmasid Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may look into lifeofamillion Hello we are sorry to hear that. Please send us a DM with more details to our account ZARA Care to further assist. Thanks. stylos o la referencia del artculo para que te podamos ayudar. Gracias por tu inters en nuestros artculos. stylos Hola Mayca. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente de Twitter ZARA Care con una foto KamillahRose in the future at our Customer Service account ZARA Care. Thank you for your understanding. KamillahRose exchanges out of the established return period. We remain at your disposal for any further assistance KamillahRose Hi please be kindly advised that as per our terms and conditions we are unable to accommodate any refunds or mehreenzahra Hi Mehreen kindly be advised that our Leeds city centre store is open today. Thank you for your interest in our brand. abijepson Twitter account with more details including the Zara store you visited so we may further assist. Thanks. abijepson Hello Abigail we are sorry to hear that this is your perception. Please send us a DM though our ZARA Care NatsyMFC or contact our Customer Care service on so we may further assist. Thank you. NatsyMFC Hello we suggest you submit you query through DM to our ZARA Care Twitter account JemWill Please contact us for future queries on our ZARA Care account. Thank you. JemWill Hi Jemma sorry but we cannot process any refund or exchange without the receipt of purchase. ISRAELALPIDE no dude en contactarnos a travs de nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zara Care. Gracias ISRAELALPIDE Sin duda sern trasladados al departamento para futuras mejoras. Para cualquier otra consulta ISRAELALPIDE Hola Israel. Le agradecemos sus comentarios nos ayudan a mejorar. itsdale may address this issue. We await your reply. Thanks. itsdale Hi Dale thank you for contacting ZARA. Please DM us further details at ZaraCare including the time of your visit so LaurenNapier Hi we are sorry to hear thisPlease send us further details such as the store location in a DM to review this matter.Thanks. JLaffan of the store to our Customer Service account ZARA Care so we may assist you further. Thank you. JLaffan Hi John we are sorry to hear this is your impression. Please send us a DM with more details including the location aramvandit Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. aramvandit Hola Aram. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido para poder asistirle. michelarzhr a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. michelarzhr al departamento correspondiente para su consideracin. Para futuras consultas no dude en contactar con nosotros michelarzhr en esta rea pero no descartamos esta posibilidad en el futuro. Hemos trasladado su sugerencia michelarzhr Hola gracias por contactarnos y por su inters en nuestra firma. En estos momentos no contamos con ninguna sucursal TeenieTina Hello please send us a DM with more details to our Customer Service Account ZARA Care so we may assist you further. Thanks. theron corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. theron Hi Liam thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that your comments have been forwarded to the Esskizee Hi we have replied via DM. Thanks. fabuleax Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. ohheyvivienne Hi Vivienne please send us a DM with further details. We will gladly look into this with the pertaining area. Thanks. Kukarte al rea de Producto para su consideracin. Gracias. Kukarte factores como el diseo o la composicin de los tejidos. Sin embargo agradecemos tus comentarios y los trasladaremos Kukarte Hola. Sentimos que esa sea tu percepcin. La misma talla puede variar de unos artculos a otros atendiendo a diversos hayitsnina Bedankt voor uw interesse in onze produkten. hayitsnina passende maten aan te bieden. De maten kunnen desondanks variren afhankelijk van het ontwerp pasvorm en samenstelling. hayitsnina Dag Nina bedankt voor uw feedback dit helpt onze service te verbeteren. We proberen voor al onze klanten Hollypops will be able to assess it and assist you further. Thank you. Hollypops kindly suggest that you take the item to your local Zara store at your earliest convenience where a senior staff member Hollypops Hi Holly we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. We kimbot as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. kimbot this area but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback kimbot Hi Kimberley thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open a store in francescasegal before distribution. We kindly request that you DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. francescasegal Hi Francesca we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls fabuleax Hi we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. lyondavid our services. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. lyondavid Hi David kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as it helps us to improve JhonyC in this kind of collaborations. For future queries please feel free to contact our customer service account ZARA Care. Thanks. JhonyC Hi Jhony. We appreciate your interest in our brand however we would like to inform you that our company does not participate pratima We apologise for any inconvenience caused. Thank you. Esskizee Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the time of your visit so we may verify on our end. Thanks. donjuanreal nternet sitemizde rn fotoraflarnn altnda bulunan Maazadaki Stok Durumu seeneine tklayarak renebilirsiniz. donjuanreal Merhaba alar bu rnde online stoklarmzda sadece ya beden kaldn zlerek belirtir maaza stok durumunu SanazFreeiran Hi Sanaz we are sorry to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. SIMIcolon Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us your inquiry.Thanks. cchow Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. sumutech Please DM us through our ZARA Care account your case number so we can assist you with your request. Thanks. sumutech Hi Subrata as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details. Courtsjordan website for similar styles. Thank you. Courtsjordan expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit the New In section on our Courtsjordan Hi Courtney thank you for your response. We can confirm that item ref. is sold out online and is not EsmaAkts uns in einer direkten Nachricht mitzuteilen ob der Artikel Online oder in einer Filiale erworben wurde. Vielen Dank. EsmaAkts Hi Esma wir entschuldigen uns fr die Unannehmlichkeiten. Um Ihnen weiterhelfen zu knnen bitten wir Sie Courtsjordan or the reference number of the item so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Courtsjordan Hi Courtney thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly request that you provide us with a picture donjuanreal Merhaba alar size yardmc olabilmek adna bu rn iin istediiniz bedeni DM ile paylamanz rica ederiz. Teekkrler. awonderemporium We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. awonderemporium Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. donjuanreal Merhaba bunun iin zgnz. Yardmc olabilmemiz iin ltfen istediiniz rnn referans numarasn bize DM ile iletin. Khalidelbaz Hi Khalid onze contact informatie vind u via de volgende link Bedankt. christylaverty We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. christylaverty Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. ellesbelles been forwarded to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. ellesbelles Hi Eleanor thank you for your positive comments. We appreciate your feedback and can confirm that it has Khalidelbaz Dag Khalid stuurt u ons alstublieft in een DM meer details zodat we u hiermee kunnen helpen. Bedankt. sumutech Hi Subrata we are very concerned about this. Kindly DM us more details including your order number to further assist you. Thanks. madisonreiser Hi Madison we are genuinely concerned. Kindly DM us the time of your visit so we may address it with our branch. Thanks. MJHillStrathy Hi we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into this. Thank you. CassyDinel Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To better assist kindly DM us more details including your order number. Thanks. SlimzGreenz Hi although no opening has been scheduled for this location we have not ruled it out. Thanks for your interest in ZARA. AlliRains Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us through our ZARA Care account the time of your visit so we may further assist you. Thanks. sweetretreats Please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. sweetretreats Hi as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details. ellesbelles including your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. ellesbelles Hi Eleanor thank you for your positive feedback. We kindly request that you DM us further details SamsonKithinjiM your visit to the store. We await your reply. Thanks. SamsonKithinjiM Hi Samson this truly concerns us. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the date and time of grbrennand We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. grbrennand Hi Georgina we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. andybush that we may prevent incidents like this from happening again. Thank you. andybush Hello Andy we again apologise for this. As previously advised your comments will be internally reviewed so Niamah Hi were glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks andybush so that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. andybush feedback to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself andybush Hello Andy we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your TKubaszczyk so that we may assist you further. Thank you. TKubaszczyk Hi Tomek we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location chloegreenway corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. chloegreenway Hi Chloe thank you for your interest in ZARA. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the MeganAlexandraE regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist accordingly. Thank you. MeganAlexandraE Hello we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information in RosannaFlautino We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. RosannaFlautino confirm that we have forwarded you comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. RosannaFlautino Hi we apologise for the inconvenience caused as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We can MissChanelws We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. MissChanelws Hi Chanel we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. MrMarkDare We can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. MrMarkDare Hi Mark we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigoorus quality controls before distribution. ImmadKayani this including the stores location so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. ImmadKayani Hello Immad we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further details regarding mizsabb Hi Sabrina we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. FiGZ query so that we may assist you adequately. Thank you. FiGZ Hello we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please DM us further details of your The perfect accessory. Natural fiber handbag with contrasting stripe detail down the front and single top handle philiparthur Thank you for your feedback. philiparthur so this can be reviewed internally to prevent this from happening again. philiparthur Please be advised that we will share your comments with the pertaining areas philiparthur We are sorry to hear about this. This situation concerns us and we would like to apologize for the negative experience. jeremyhengwr We would advise you to make an online purchase instead. Thank you for your interest in Zara. jeremyhengwr We apologize for any inconvenience caused by this. jeremyhengwr is not available for purchase in any local stores in Singapore. jeremyhengwr Hi Jeremy we are sorry to inform you that the item in question QUILTED TOILETRY BAG Ref. CarolGrauer Hi Carol please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. CarolGrauer Hi Carol this truly concerns us. Kindly DM us your order number to better assist you. Thanks. realathenalazo more details advising if this is an online or store purchase. Thanks. realathenalazo Hi Athena we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us libbyhalla Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. libbyhalla Hi we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Joricha Hi Jo please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. MOLLYHOGAN stores location so we may address this matter. Thanks. MOLLYHOGAN Hi Molly thank you for bringing this to our attention. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the ohheyvivienne Hi Vivienne this concerns us. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details so we may assist you. Thanks. ClausRodgaard details so we may assist you. Thanks. ClausRodgaard Hi Claus were sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM to our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further arockz Hi please send us a DM to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may assist you. Thanks. jeremyhengwr Thank you jeremyhengwr please use the check instore availability link that you can find on the page of our website or in INFO on the APP. jeremyhengwr In order to check the availability of an item in a store jeremyhengwr Hi Jeremy thank you for your interest in Zara. The flatform espadrilles. For urban streets or sandy beaches zaranewin philiparthur Hi Philip we are very sorry to hear about your discomfort. Please DM us further details to be able to assist. Thank you. Jessdf Hi we are very sorry about this. We will most certainly share this with the store to implement any necessary improvement. Thanks. ogninjakicks Hi no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. OliviaWaker possibly find a similar item likely to interest you. Thank you. OliviaWaker replenished online. We kindly suggest that you regularly check the New In section of our website where you can OliviaWaker Hi Olivia thank you for your patience. Please be advised that the item ref. is now sold out and will be not Jessdf Hi Jessica hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. Joricha regarding this so that we may assist you adequately. Thank you. Joricha Hello Jo we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please send DM us further details everydayrenee Please contact Zara Care for future queries. Thanks. everydayrenee Hi thank you for that suggestion. Your comments will be forwarded for consideration. TheNoseyPanda of your visit to the store . Thanks. TheNoseyPanda Hi thanks for bring this to our attention. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the date and time susanmselkirk improvements. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your valuable feedback. susanmselkirk now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area and to the Cardiff branch itself in order to implement any necessary susanmselkirk Hi Susan we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. Kindly be advised that we have Fopsporter Dag Thomas de broek is zwart met een rood sierstiksel. We hopen dat deze informatie nuttig was. Bedankt. This is new in Panamastyle hat for sunny days zaranewin anuskigt a nuestro personal. Muchas gracias. anuskigt Hola Ana. El Zara de La Castellana dispone de un bao por planta. En caso de necesitar ayuda no dudes en acudir emmamac and whether you are trying to place your order via our website or the app so that we may assist you further. Thank you. LaneJo Hi Josie kindly note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks LisaBNYC Hi Lisa this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details so we may look into this. Thanks. StephanysChoice Hi Stephany we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Poppietayley us with further information so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. Poppietayley Hello we are sorry to hear this as this is not the service we pride ourselves on. Kindly DM romkim Hi Julie thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. kschay Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us your order number through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. kuzgunkafesi Ltfen yardmc olabilmemiz iin detayl bilgileri bize dorudan mesaj ile iletin. AlkerJaw the future. We have forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. AlkerJaw Hi Jack kindly be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this location but do not rule this out in servicehunters forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. servicehunters Hi we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly Itzelamadorr Hola Itzel. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles para asistirle. Gracias. VisionOfAMogul Hi were sorry to hear this. Please confirm your order number via our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. xofrancescat so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Madamevibe number and a picture of the item clearly displaying its faultiness. We await your reply. Thanks. xofrancescat Hi Francesca thank you for your recent query. Kindly DM us the reference number of the items Madamevibe Hi Taylor were truly sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with the order ItsTiaRenee Hi Tiara please provide details of your query via our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. HelloAva Hi Ava please note that we have replied via DM. Thanks. tedstar reviewing this with the store management. Thank you. tedstar Hi Sam we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We can confirm that we are icegale helps us to improve our services. Thank you. icegale location but do not rule this out in the future. We have now forwarded your feedback to the relevant department as this icegale Hi Sophie thank you for contacting us. Kindly be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this sophjohnno as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. AndryYak this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. AndryYak Hi Andry we truly apologize for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly forward hollyaston for further assistance. Thank you. hollyaston therefore may not attend to every call. We kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on hollyaston Hi Holly we apologise for this. Please be informed that our stores must maintain a high level of customer service HelloAva location so we may look into this for you. Thanks. HelloAva Hi Ava were sorry to hear this. Please provide us the reference number or a picture of the item as well as the stores LaurenSocha Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks. LaurenSocha Hi Lauren thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. heybratwit assist you. Thanks. heybratwit Hi please DM us via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further details regarding your query so we may aurysmx envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Muchas gracias. aurysmx Hola Hector. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor tatianatayyy through our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. tatianatayyy Hi Tatiana please be advised that we do not offer this option mentioned. For further inquiries feel free to contact us rebeccaaaa Hi Rebecca thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. nnn We invite you to regularly consult our New In Section to stay abreast of future updates. Thanks. nnn Hi Nan thanks for your reply. We wish to inform you that a release date has not been scheduled for this item yet. HKalinins Hello we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Kindly DM us more information so that we may assist you further. Thank you. ThisIsEbbe Hi Ebbe please DM us ZARACare. Thanks. PauAalmeida Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Facebook ZARA Care. Muchas gracias. PauAalmeida Hemos trasladado su sugerencia al departamento correspondiente para su consideracin. PauAalmeida Hola. En estos momentos no contamos con ninguna sucursal en esta rea pero no descartamos esta posibilidad en el futuro. JessPiers Hi Jessica kindly be informed that we have now replied to your DM. Thank you. Hugoisaacs Kindly DM us with the device and browser you are using so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Hugoisaacs Hi Hugo thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that or website is currently not experiencing any problems. ambercoxx We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. ambercoxx Hi Amber we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. MissLouiseTyrer for further assistance. Thank you. MissLouiseTyrer therefore may not attend to every call. We kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on MissLouiseTyrer Hi Louise we apologise for this. Please be informed that our stores must maintain a high level of customer service Laurajkelb where you may browse our latest collection and find something of interest. Thank you. 