There is great need to feed Christian hope which gives us a new view capable of discovering and seeing the good. May we entrust ourselves to the intercession of Sts Peter and Paul in order to give witness to Gods liberating action on us. God looks with love upon every one of us. Sharpen your gaze in order to see the signs God shows us in reality. I repeat the firm condemnation of every form of torture and call on everyone to work for its abolishment and support victims and families. Each one of us is precious each one of us is irreplaceable in Gods eyes. Mercy warms the heart and makes it sensitive to the needs of brothers and sisters with sharing and participation. Go forth and reach out to all people at the margins of society Go there and be the Church with the strength of the Holy Spirit. Let us not be distracted by the false wisdom of this world but to follow Jesus as the one sure guide who gives meaning to our life. We must not turn our backs on the new forms of poverty and marginalization that prevent people from living a life of dignity. The personal encounter with refugees dispels fears and distorted ideologies and becomes a factor for growth in humanity. MRSection None of us is an island autonomous and independent from others. We can only build the future by standing together including everyone. Jesus was broken he is broken for us. This is the Eucharist. And he asks us to give ourselves to break ourselves as it were for others. Care for the environment is always a social concern as well. Let us hear both the cry of the earth and the cry of the poor. Love requires a creative concrete response. Good intentions are not enough. The other is not a statistic but a person to take care of. Everyones existence is tied to that of others life is not time merely passing by life is about interactions. There is much need of prayer and penitence to implore the grace of conversion and an end to the many wars throughout the world. In his passion Jesus took upon himself all our suffering. He knows the meaning of pain he understands and comforts us giving us strength. The Church shines forth when she is missionary welcoming free faithful poor in means and rich in love. The Feast of the Most Holy Trinity invites us to be a leaven of communion consolation and mercy. Life can survive only because of the generosity of other lives. Each one of us as a living member of the Body of Christ is called to work for unity and peace. Humility and tenderness are not virtues of the weak but of the strong. The Church needs everyday saints those of ordinary life carried out with coherence. Lets always remember that our faith is concrete the Word became flesh not an idea We must never forget that the natural environment is a collective good the patrimony of all humanity and the responsibility of everyone. Let us allow ourselves to be humbly led by the Holy Spirit in order to avoid taking the wrong road and closing our hearts. Let us promote with courage all necessary means to protect the lives of our children. Through the darkness of todays conflicts every one of us can become a bright candle a reminder that light will overcome darkness. I thank God for parents who strive to live in love and keep moving forward even if they fall many times along the way. Let us learn from the strong and helpful faith of our Mother Mary in order to become living signs of Gods mercy. Christian joy comes from the Holy Spirit who gives us true freedom and the gift of bringing Jesus to our brothers and sisters. The motherly presence of Mary reminds us that God never tires of lowering himself in mercy over humanity. I encourage everyone to engage in constructive forms of communication that reject prejudice towards others and foster hope and trust today. Let us pray for our Coptic brethren in Egypt who were killed because they did not want to renounce the faith. The future of our societies requires concrete action in favor of life on the part of everyone and especially institutions. With the Ascension of Jesus we participate in the fullness of life with God. Let us carry this in our hearts in our daily lives. Let us pray with Catholics in China entrusting ourselves to Mary for the grace to endure patiently and overcome challenges with love.  Dialogue allows us to plan for a future in common. Through dialogue we build peace taking care of everyone. We are called to live not as one without others above or against others but with and for others. Mary teaches us to place our hope in God even when all seems without meaning even when He seems hidden. Peace must be built on justice on integral human development on respect for human rights on the protection of creation. Let us seek to always hold high the tone of our life remembering the goal and glory for which we exist work struggle and suffer. God makes His most beautiful flowers grow among the driest stones. Our hope is the Lord Jesus whom we recognize as living and present in us and in our brothers and sisters. Jesus asks to be looked in the eye to be acknowledged to be loved. Let us ask for the grace to follow Jesus faithfully not in words but in deeds and to have the patience to carry our own cross. Let us all ask for the gift to understand Gods word. Fatima is more than anything this mantle of Light where we take refuge when we ask the Virgin Mary show unto us Jesus. Whenever we look to Mary we come to believe once again in the revolutionary nature of love and tenderness. Here in Fatima I give praise to Christ our peace and I implore for the world concord among all peoples. I ask everyone to join me as pilgrims of hope and peace may your hands in prayer continue to support mine. With Mary as a pilgrim of hope and peace I travel to Fatima tomorrow.Let us see in her that everything is Gods gift and He is our strength God is greater than nothingness and a lit candle is enough to overcome the darkest of nights. Everyone has something to give to society no one is excluded from contributing to the good of all. May Jesus who vanquished the darkness of sin and death grant peace to our days. Let us be challenged by the words and actions of Jesus and welcome his call to a life that is fully human happy to spend itself in love. Rejoice Hidden within your life is a seed of resurrection an offer of life ready to be awakened In every age the Risen Christ tirelessly seeks us his brothers and sisters wandering in the deserts of this world. Let us allow ourselves to be surprised by the newness that Christ alone can give. May his tenderness and love guide our steps. May our attitude be gentle and humble attentive to caring for the poor. Lets work together to increase solidarity and sharing. Cooperation helps to build better and more peaceful societies. May Saint Joseph give young people the ability to dream to take risks for big tasks the things that God dreams for us. By his resurrection Jesus Christ has set us free from the slavery of sin and death and has opened before us the way to eternal life. The presence of Jesus can be communicated through our lives and the language of gratuitous and concrete love. May the Lord today grant us to set out together as pilgrims of communion and messengers of peace. We are called to walk together in the conviction that the future also depends on the encounter of religions and cultures. Please pray for my journey tomorrow as a pilgrim of peace to Egypt. Lets promote friendship and respect between men and women of different religious traditions in order to build a world of peace. He died He was buried He rose and He appeared. Jesus is alive This is the heart of the Christian message. If we had Gods Word always in our heart no temptation could separate us from God. Let us pray for the grace to never grow tired of drawing from the well of the Fathers mercy and bringing it to the world. Gods mercy is forever it never ends it never runs out it never gives up when faced with closed doors and it never tires. Lord bring healing to our lives that we may protect the world and not prey on it that we may sow beauty not pollution and destruction. When we have reached the lowest point of our misery and our weakness the Risen Christ gives us the strength to rise again. Since Christ is resurrected we can look with new eyes and a new heart at every event of our lives even the most negative ones. Let us meditate with wonder and gratitude on the great mystery of the Lords Resurrection. During this week of Easter it would do us good every day to read a passage from the Gospel which speaks of the Resurrection of Christ. Yes we are sure of it Christ indeed from death is risen Happy Easter May you bring to all the joy and hope of the Risen Christ Today is the celebration of our hope the celebration of this truth nothing and no one will ever be able to separate us from Gods love. O Cross of Christ teach us that the rising of the sun is more powerful than the darkness of night and Gods etern It is good for us to break out of our set ways because it is proper to the Heart of God to overflow with tenderness with ever more to give While the mystery of evil is profound the reality of Gods Love poured out through Jesus is infinite and victorious. Jesus comes to save us we are called to choose his way the way of service of giving of forgetfulness of ourselves. During this Holy Week let us focus our gaze on Jesus and ask for the grace to better understand the mystery of his sacrifice for our sake. O Cross of Christ inspire in us a desire for God for goodness and for light. Dear young friends dont be afraid to say yes to Jesus with all your heart to respond generously and to follow him Lent is a period of repentance aimed at enabling ourselves to rise with Christ to renew our baptismal identity. Hope helps believers to be open to the surprises God has in store for us. Let us follow in the footsteps of Christ especially by dedicating ourselves to our brothers and sisters in need. Today is the International Day of Mine Awareness. Let us please renew the commitment for a world without mines Lent is by nature a time of hope because it leads us to be born anew of the spirit by the love of God. When the Holy Spirit abides in our hearts it is he who makes us understand that the Lord is near and takes care of us. Even in the hardest and most disturbing moments the Lords mercy and goodness are greater than every thing. Fasting with a proud heart does more harm than good. The first fast is for humility. Prayer is powerful. Prayer conquers evil. Prayer brings peace. The peace that springs from faith is a gift it is the grace of feeling that God loves us and that he is always beside us. If we learn to read everything in the light of the Holy Spirit we realize that everything is grace Caring for the sacred gift of all human life from conception to death is the best way of preventing every type of violence. Lent is a favourable season for deepening our spiritual life through fasting prayer and almsgiving. The word of God is alive and powerful capable of bringing about the conversion of hearts. Let us remember our Christian brothers and sisters who are suffering persecution for their faith. May we be united with them. Fasting is fruitful when accompanied by concrete expressions of love towards our neigbors especially those in difficulty. May the certainty of faith be the engine of our lives. Even if we may be men and women of little faith the Lord saves us. We must always have hope in the Lord It is vital that we sow the seeds of goodness in order to cultivate justice foster accord and sustain integration without growing weary. May St Joseph Spouse of Mary and Patron of the Universal Church bless you and watch over you. And best wishes to fathers I invite you not to build walls but bridges to conquer evil with good offence with forgiveness to live in peace with everyone. Fasting means not only abstaining from food but also from any unhealthy attachment and especially sin. The Church wishes to be close to each person with the love compassion and consolation that come from Christ. The word of God helps us to open our eyes to welcome and love life especially when it is weak and vulnerable. Let us pray for one another so that we may open our doors to the weak and poor. May the Holy Spirit lead us on a true journey of conversion so that we can rediscover the gift of Gods word. Lent is the favourable season for renewing our encounter with Christ living in his word in the sacraments and in our neighbour. The road from love to hate is easy. The one from hate to love is more difficult but brings peace. Let us strive to fast during Lent with a smile rather than a long face. I ask please for your prayers for me and my collaborators who until Friday will be on retreat. Jesus is the faithful friend who never abandons us. Even when we sin he patiently awaits our return. Lent urgently calls us to conversion. We are called to return to God with all our heart. Fasting is not only about abstaining from food. It also means sharing food with those who are hungry. God is always faithful and never stops for a moment loving us following our steps and running after us when we have strayed from him. Lent is a new beginning a path leading to the certain goal of Easter Christs victory over death. Prayer is the key that opens Gods merciful heart. When the journey is uncertain and you fall God rich in mercy will extend his hand to pick you up. I invite you to persevere in prayer so that Jesus wish may be fulfilled that they may all be one. Proclaiming to all the love and tenderness of Jesus we become apostles of the joy of the Gospel. And joy is contagious The Christian heart is always full of joy. Always. Joy received as a gift and kept in order to be shared with everyone. Do not underestimate the value of example for it is more powerful than a thousand words a thousand likes retweets or YouTube videos. Jesus entrusted to Peter the keys to open the entrance to the kingdom of heaven and not to close it. God knows better than we do about what we need. We must have faith because his ways are different from ours. If evil is contagious so is goodness. Let us be infected by goodness and let us spread goodness Let us be moved by the Holy Spirit in order to be courageous in finding new ways to proclaim the Gospel. How often in the Bible the Lord asks us to welcome migrants and foreigners reminding us that we too are foreigners A youthful heart does not tolerate injustice and cannot bow to a throwaway culture nor give in to the globalization of indifference. I invite you to join in the fight against poverty both material and spiritual. Together lets build peace and bridges of friendship. The throwaway culture is not of Jesus. The other is my brother beyond every barrier of nationality social extraction or religion. It is good to know the Lord takes on the burden of our fragilities and patiently gets us back on our feet with the strength to start over. Let us never place conditions on God Entrusting ourselves to the Lord means entering into his plans without demanding anything. The dignity of children must be respected we pray that the scandal of childsoldiers may be eliminated the world over. I encourage all of you to see in Mary Health of the Infirm the sure sign of Gods love for every human being. Let us be close to our brothers and sisters who are going through illness and also their families. Hope opens new horizons and enables us to dream of what is not even imaginable. Those who traffic human beings are ultimately accountable to God. Let us pray for the conversion of hearts. MRSection Let us hear the cry of the many children who are enslaved. No one must remain indifferent to their sorrow. MRSection Being a believer means learning how to see with eyes of faith. Those who do not believe in or search for God have perhaps never been challenged by a testimony of faith. Take action Live life to the full And when others see the witness you give they may ask why do you live this way Let us never forget to pray for each another. Prayer is our greatest strength. Consecrated life is a great gift of God a gift of God to the Church a gift of God to His People. God wants us all to see one another as brothers and to live as such forming a great human family that is harmonious in its diversity. Let us imitate the attitude of Jesus toward the sick he takes care of everyone He shares their suffering and opens their hearts to hope. Nothing is impossible if we turn to God in prayer. We can all be builders of peace. Lord God of peace hear our prayer and grant us peace in the Holy Land. Shalom salaam peace The Kingdom of God is already in our midst like a hidden seed. Anyone with pure eyes can see it blossom. Today I want to remember in my heart all the victims of the Holocaust. May their sufferings and their tears never be forgotten. Hope lets new life blossom like a plant that grows from the seed fallen on the earth. I love to repeat that Christian unity is achieved by walking together by encounter prayer and preaching the Gospel. Let us offer the men and women of our time stories marked by the logic of the good news. Be not afraid for I am with you. Let us communicate hope and trust in our time The unity of love is realised when we announce together the wonders God has done for us. With St Dominic we go forward with joy thinking of our Saviour. OP Christian unity is not the fruit of our human efforts but a gift that comes from above. We invoke Christian unity because we invoke Christ. We want to live unity we want to follow Christ and to live in His love. From the intimacy of our faith in Jesus Christ comes our need to be united in Him. Peace is an active virtue one that calls for the engagement and cooperation of each individual and society as a whole. There can never be true peace as long as a single human being is violated in his or her personal identity. May the Holy Family watch over all child migrants and accompany the vulnerable and the voiceless on their journey. MRSection Unscrupulous exploitation harms young girls and boys who are trafficked and enslaved. May God bless all those who set them free. MRSection Children forced to flee especially if fleeing alone are most defenceless and vulnerable. Lets pray for them and help them. MRSection Young migrants especially when unaccompanied are especially defenceless. Let everyone offer them a helping hand. Everyone can help bring about a culture of mercy in which no one looks at another with indifference. My hope is that our countries and their peoples may find increased opportunities to work together in building true peace. There can be no true peace if everyone claims always and exclusively his or her own rights without caring for the good of others. Let us ask the Virgin Mary to help us follow Christ on the way of faith and charity the path set out by our Baptism. Let us remember our Christian brothers and sisters of the East Catholics and Orthodox who are celebrating Christmas today. Like the Magi may we also journey and be attentive untiring and courageous on the path to find the invisible God who was born among us. May charity and nonviolence govern how we treat each other. To be true followers of Jesus today also includes embracing his teaching about nonviolence. May nonviolence become the hallmark of our decisions our relationships and our actions. At the beginning of this New Year I offer heartfelt wishes of peace to the worlds peoples and nations. Let us entrust the new year to Mary Mother of God so that peace and mercy may grow throughout the world. As we end this year let us remember the days weeks and months we have lived in order to give thanks and offer everything to the Lord. Holy Family of Nazareth help us all to recognize the sacred nature of the family and its beauty in Gods plan for humanity. Let us be touched by the tenderness that saves. Let us draw close to God who draws close to us. Let us pause to gaze upon the crib. God who is in love with us draws us to himself with his tenderness by being born poor and frail in our midst as one of us. Christmas has above all a taste of hope because for all the darkness in our lives Gods light shines forth. On todays Feast of Saint Stephen let us remember the martyrs of today and yesterday. May we overcome evil with good and hatred with love. Christ is born for us let us rejoice in the day of our salvation Like the shepherds of Bethlehem may we too with eyes full of amazement and wonder gaze upon the Child Jesus the Son of God. The Lord becomes man to journey with us in our everyday lives. The birthday of Jesus who took on the burden of our human weakness is drawing closer. Mercy gives rise to joy because our hearts are opened to the hope of a new life. Mercy is the concrete action of Gods love that by forgiving transforms and changes our lives. Nothing of what a repentant sinner places before Gods mercy can be excluded from the embrace of his forgiveness. I express my solidarity with migrants around the world and thank all those who help them welcoming others means welcoming God in person Our joy comes from the confidence we have that the Lord is close to us with his tenderness mercy forgiveness and love. I thank you all for your kindness. Please do not forget to pray for me. Forgiveness is the most visible sign of the Fathers love which Jesus sought to reveal by his entire life. The love of God which can look into the heart of each person and see the deepest desire hidden there must take primacy over all else. Now is the time to unleash the creativity of mercy to bring about new undertakings the fruit of grace. Today I would like each of us to reflect on his and her own past and the gifts received from the Lord. On this Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe let us entrust to her the American peoples and the mission of the Church on that continent. May Advent be a time of hope. We go to encounter the Lord who comes to encounter us. Let us all work decisively so that no one is excluded from the effective recognition of their fundamental human rights. Let us pray for all the victims of genocide and work together so that this crime never happens again in the world. Let us learn from the Blessed Mother how to have a humble heart capable of receiving Gods gifts. The Church does not grow through proselytism but by attraction. Jesus gives meaning to my life here on earth and hope for the life to come. Jesus teaches us always to go to the essentials and to take on our own mission with responsibility. Advent is a time to prepare our hearts to receive Christ our Saviour and hope. We are all called to go out as missionaries and bring the message of Gods love to every person in every area of life. I call on all people of goodwill to take action against human trafficking and new forms of slavery. Today we remember Blessed Charles de Foucauld who said faith calls us to see Jesus in every human being. On this feast of Saint Andrew with fraternal affection I am close to Patriarch Bartholomew and pray for him and the Church entrusted to him Jesus calls us to be bearers of joy and consolation as his merciful witnesses. Mercy is not a parenthesis in the life of the Church it constitutes her very existence making tangible the profound truths of the Gospel. Advent is a time when we journey towards Jesus and his Kingdom of justice and peace. With the close of the Jubilee we look ahead at how to continue to experience with joy fidelity and enthusiasm the richness of Gods mercy. So many women are overwhelmed with the burdens of life and the drama of violence The Lord wants them to be free and their dignity respected We have to break out of ourselves to encounter others. If we dont even we Christians can suffer from division. May the Holy Spirit help us to be patient when enduring and to be humble and simple when advising. How much I desire that the years to come will be full of mercy so that every person can experience the goodness and tenderness of God Let us remember with gratitude the cloistered and monastic religious who pray for the Church and the world. We entrust the life of the Church all humanity and the entire cosmos to the Lord asking him to pour out his mercy upon us. May the balm of mercy reach everyone both believers and those far away as a sign that the Kingdom of God is already present in our midst Today we close the Holy Door thanking God for having granted us this extraordinary time of grace. May the Jubilee of Mercy which concludes today continue to bear fruit in the hearts and works of believers. Gods mercy toward us is linked to our mercy toward our neighbour. If you want a heart full of love be merciful It is not enough to experience Gods mercy in ones life whoever receives it must also become a sign and instrument for others. We dont have to go far or come up with grand projects to be charitable. Often the people closest to us could use our help. If every one of us every day does a work of mercy there will be a revolution in the world In a world which has been damaged by the virus of indifference the works of mercy are the best antidote. If you want to find God seek him where he is hidden in the neediest the sick the hungry the imprisoned. I am before the Holy Door and I ask Lord help me to thrust open the door of my heart. Dear Friends never forget that in our encounter with people in need we meet Jesus himself. We should never forget about beauty which humanity needs so much May we make Gods merciful love ever more evident in our world through dialogue mutual acceptance and fraternal cooperation. Prophecy is saying that there is something truer more beautiful greater of greater good to which we are all called. No cell is so isolated that it is shut to the Lord. His love reaches everywhere. I pray that each one may open his heart to this love. Forgiveness is the essence of the love which can understand mistakes and mend them. Let us be moved by Gods watchful gaze. The one thing he desires is for us to abide like living branches in his Son Jesus. Christian life is a journey but not a sorrowful journey it is joyful. With faith we visit the graves of our loved ones where we can also pray for those who no one remembers. The Father watches over us and his gaze of love inspires us to purify our past and to journey towards unity. The saints have found the secret of authentic happiness which lies deep within the soul and has its source in the love of God. Christian unity is a priority because we realize that much more unites us than separates us. Let us ask the Lord that his word source of light and life may help Christians be ever more united. I ask you to please pray that my journey to Sweden might contribute to the unity of all Christians. Let us abbandon a language of condemnation and embrace one of mercy. Let us pray for our brothers and sisters who encounter discrimination and pay a personal price for their fidelity to the Gospel. The logic behind charity is to be willing to give up everything so that unity and love prevail. Love is a patient effort by persons who dedicate themselves to listening and drawing closer to others. Today there is an urgent need for politics and economics to be centered on the service of life. We are disciples but also missionaries bringing Christ wherever he asks us to be present. Do not be afraid Open wide the doors for Christ Saint John Paul II October The sick the poor as well as the unborn are all made in the image of God and worthy of the highest respect. Let us try always to be united with Jesus following him especially on the way of the cross. Holiness is to live by being loving and offering our Christian witness in our everyday lives. Lord come to our aid Grant us peace guide our steps in the way of peace. Mary our Mother pray for us. May nothing keep you from growing in friendship with God. Let us go forward with courage on the path to holiness Today St Teresa of vila invites us to pray more in order to be closer to God and to improve our lives. God never stops wanting our good even when we sin. We are living the Gospel when we help the smallest and most vulnerable. migrants I entrust all child migrants to the protection of the Holy Family of Nazareth. No one is a stranger in the Christian community. migrants Children have the right to a healthy and secure family environment. migrants To live joyfully we must let go of anger wrath violence and revenge. Punishment should necessarily include hope NoDeathPenalty We Christians have a Mother the same Mother that Jesus had we have a Father the same as Jesus. We are not orphans Our Lady also wants to bring the great gift of Jesus to us all and with him she brings us his love his peace and his joy. The Rosary is a prayer which always accompanies me. Its also the prayer of ordinary people and the saints...and a prayer from my heart. It is by loving that the GodwhoisLove is proclaimed to the world. Ecumenical and interreligious dialogue is not a luxury but something which our world wounded by conflict and division increasingly needs. Saint Francis teach us to be instruments of peace which has its source in God. LaudatoSi I entrust to Mary the anxieties and sufferings of those peoples who are innocent victims of conflicts in many parts of the world. May the Lord who creates harmony out of diversity forever protect this beloved land of the Caucasus. Dialogue with others prayers for all these are our means to give rise to love where there is hatred forgiveness where there is offence. God changes the world by transforming our hearts. When God finds an open and trusting heart he can work wonders there. The poor and weak are the flesh of Christ who call upon Christians of every confession. God is not known through grand ideas and extensive study but rather through the littleness of a humble and trusting heart. Lord Jesus cast forth the shadow of your cross over peoples at war may they learn the way of reconciliation dialogue and forgiveness. Today I leave for Georgia and Azerbaijan. Please accompany me with your prayers so we can sow peace unity and reconciliation together. The Lord has entrusted the Archangels with the task of defending humanity. How beautiful would it be to leave the world a better place than the way we found it. Let us promote a sustainable tourism which stimulates development and encounter with local peoples and avoids every sort of discrimination. In the brother we help we recognize the face of God which no one sees anymore. The world needs concrete signs of solidarity especially before the temptation of indifference. Let us walk together taking care of each other and of Creation our common home. God never tires of offering His forgiveness each time we ask for it. The more we let ourselves be enveloped by the love of God the more our lives are renewed. Dialogue is born when I am capable of recognizing others as a gift of God and accept they have something to tell me. Every encounter with the other is a seed which can grow into a flourishing tree where many will find rest and nourishment. Serving is the way that mission is carried out the only way to be a disciple of Jesus. As Christians we are called to be missionaries of the Gospel. The concrete sign that we have truly encountered Jesus is the joy that we show in communicating it to others. Only those who humble themselves before the Lord can experience the greatness of his mercy. The Church is called to walk with Jesus on the roads of the world in order to meet the humanity of today. The Churchs forgiveness must be every bit as broad as that offered by Jesus on the Cross and by Mary at his feet. Let us ask for a faith that allows us to have trust in God no matter what the circumstances of life. Greetings to all the athletes participating in the Paralympics Sport is an opportunity for growth and friendship. The Word of God can revive a hardened heart. Mercy can truly contribute to the building up of a more humane world. The Lord presents himself each day and knocks at the door of our heart. To offer todays world the witness of mercy is a task from which none of us can feel exempted. God is always moved to compassion whenever we repent. What a great gift the Lord has given us in teaching us to forgive and in this way to touch the Fathers mercy The one who builds on God builds on rock because he is always faithful even if we sometimes lack faith. Let us carry Mother Teresas smile in our hearts and give it to those whom we meet along our journey. Let us imitate Mother Teresa who made works of mercy the guide of her life and the path towards holiness. Charity means to draw close to the periphery of existence of the men and women we encounter every day. God gave us the earth to till and to keep in a balanced and respectful way. Serving with love and tenderness those who are in need helps us to grow in humanity. May Gods mercy towards us move us to be merciful towards our neighbors. An easy prayer to say every day Lord I am a sinner come with your mercy. May a powerful gust of holiness sweep through all the Americas during the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy Consoling those who suffer we are able to help build a better world. New forms of slavery such as human and organ trafficking forced labour and prostitution are true crimes against humanity. Mercy does not just mean being a good person nor is it mere sentimentality. It is the measure of our authenticity as disciples of Jesus. Where there is love there is also understanding and forgiveness. Never abbandon prayer even when it seems pointless to pray. Through the cross we can touch Gods mercy and be touched by that mercy I entrust you to the maternal care of our Mother who lives in the glory of God and is always by our side on our lifes journey. We ask Mary our Mother to help us to pray with a humble heart. May people see the Gospel in our lives in our generous and faithful love for Christ and our brothers and sisters. In Confession we encounter the merciful embrace of the Father. His love always forgives. A society made up of different cultures must seek unity in respect. We ask for respect for indigenous peoples whose very identity and existence are threatened. When there is dialogue in the family tensions are easily resolved. We oppose hatred and destruction with goodness. We live in societies of different cultures and religions but we are brothers and sisters. Good luck to the athletes at Rio May you always be messengers of goodwill and true sporting spirit. Gods forgiveness knows no limits...God looks at the heart that seeks forgiveness. Assisi Porziuncola The secret to joy never suppress positive curiosity get involved because life is meant to be lived. A huge thank you dear young people St John Paul II rejoiced in Heaven and will help you bring the joy of the Gospel wherever you go. Jesus speaks to you every day. Let His Gospel become yours and let Him be your navigator on lifes journey God counts on you for who you are not for what you have. You are valuable in His eyes and your value is priceless. God love us as we are no sin fault or mistake can make Him change His mind. Jesus is calling you to leave your mark on life one that transforms your own life and the lives of others. God is inviting you to dream He wants to show you that you can make the world a different place. We have come into the world in order to leave a mark. Jesus seeks hearts that are open and tender toward the weak hearts that are not hard but docile and transparent. Jesus wants truly consecrated hearts that live by His forgiveness and share it compassionately with their brothers and sisters. I desire mercy not sacrifice. Francis. . Sanctuary of Divine Mercy. Dear young people this evening the Lord renews His invitation to take the lead in serving others. Let us embrace the Cross. Jesus embraces the nakedness hunger thirst loneliness suffering and death of all men and women of all time. Anyone who performs works of mercy is not afraid of death. How I wish that we as Christians could be close to the sick the same way Jesus was in silence with a caress and in prayer. Jesus Christ encourages us to lift up our eyes and to dream lofty dreams. During these days of the WYD Jesus wants to enter our homes. A merciful heart has the courage to leave comforts behind and to encounter others embracing everyone. The Lord loves to participate in the events of our daily lives and to walk with us. The Lord is amongst us and takes care of us without deciding for us. Lets live WYD in Krakow together Krakow Dear young people stay united in prayer so that this WYD may be rich with spiritual fruits. See you tomorrow Krakow Dear young people let us offer the world a mosaic of many races cultures and peoples united in the name of Jesus Krakow Dear young people I bless your journey towards Krakow may it be a pilgrimage of faith and fraternity. Krakow Let us remember the elderly and the sick who in the summer months are often more alone and can be in difficulty. I pray for the victims of the attack in Nice and their families. I ask God to convert the hearts of the violent blinded by hate. Vacations offer a time to rest and to restore the spirit especially through a more quiet reading of the Gospels. During this month my audiences are suspended but I do not stop praying for you while I ask that you please pray for me Lets join forces at all levels to ensure that peace in beloved Syria is possible peacepossibleSyria The summertime offers many people an occasion for rest. Its also a favorable time to take care of our human relationships. Loving and forgiving as God loves and forgives. This is a programme of life that can know no interruptions or exceptions. True joy which is experienced in the family is not something random and fortuitous but normal and ongoing. In the world of work today it is essential to educate and follow the luminous and demanding path of honesty. This Jubilee of mercy is a time of reconciliation for everyone. Today the Lord repeats to all pastors follow me despite the difficulties follow me by proclaiming the Gospel to all. If God is present in our life the joy of bringing the Gospel will be our strength and our happiness. Jesus looks for us and invites us to make room in the inner reaches of our heart. Do we realize it I am happy to have visited Armenia the first nation to accept Christianity as its religion and I thank all for the welcome. PopeInArmenia May the Armenian Church walk in peace and may the communion between us be complete. PopeInArmenia The sufferings of the Armenians are our own they are the sufferings of the members of Christs Mystical Body. PopeInArmenia The commitment to full unity and cooperation among all the Lords disciples is like a radiant light in a dark night. PopeInArmenia Please accompany me with your prayers during my apostolic journey to Armenia. Being Christian involves joining ones own life in all its aspects to the person of Jesus and through Him to the Father. People are the primary artisans of their own development the first in charge We are all on a journey to the common house of heaven where we will be able to admire with joyful wonder the mystery of the universe. Let us join in prayer with our Orthodox brothers and sisters for the Holy and Great Council of the Orthodox Church opening today in Crete. More than a scientific question the universe is a joyful mystery that speaks of Gods boundless love for us. In prayer let us experience the compassion of God full of merciful love. Even in the worst situation of life God waits for me God wants to embrace me God expects me. Dear elderly friends God does not abandon you he is with you With his help you are and you continue to be the memory for your people. The future of society requires the fruitful encounter between young and old. I invite all of the institutions of the world to give a voice to all of those who suffer silently from hunger. ZeroHunger Dear sick people entrust yourselves to the Spirit who will not fail you with the consoling light of his presence. Do not tire of asking in prayer for the Lords help especially in difficulty. The tenderness of God is present in the lives of all those who attend the sick and understand their needs with eyes full of love. We need to recognize the fundamental values of our common humanity values in the name of which we can and must cooperate. Let us protect the oceans part of the global commons vital for our water supply and the variety of living creatures In this age lacking in social friendship our first task is that of building community. We need to discover the gifts of each person may communities transmit their own values and be open to the experiences of others. The Saints are not supermen nor were they born perfect. When they recognized Gods love they followed it and served others. Let us hear the cry of the victims and those suffering no family without a home no child without a childhood. Our priestly life is given over in service in closeness to the People of God with the joy of those who hear the Lord. Let us pray together for the Jubilee for Priests from June. Visit When disciples of Christ are transparent in heart and sensitive in life they bring the Lords light to the places where they live and work. I join spiritually all those taking part in special devotions to the Blessed Virgin Mary on this last day of the month of May. We are stewards not masters of our earth. Each of us has a personal responsibility to care for the precious gift of Gods creation. By receiving the Eucharist we are nourished of the Body and Blood of Jesus and by entering us Jesus joins us to his Body Remain steadfast in the journey of faith with firm hope in the Lord. This is the secret of our journey Mary is an icon of how the Church must offer forgiveness to those who seek it. Jesus gives himself to us in the Eucharist offering himself as spiritual food that sustains our life. With the weapons of love God has defeated selfishness and death. His son Jesus is the door of mercy wide open to all. God can fill our hearts with his love and help us continue our journey together towards the land of freedom and life. In a broken world to communicate with mercy means to help create closeness between the children of God. The feast of the Most Holy Trinity renews our mission of living in communion with God and all people on the model of the divine communion. Each one of us can be a bridge of encounter between diverse cultures and religions a way to rediscover our common humanity. The firm commitment for human rights springs from an awareness of the unique and supreme value of each person. Loving and forgiving are tangible and visible signs that faith has transformed our hearts. The Jubilee is the party to which Jesus invites us all without excluding anyone. The world needs the courage hope faith and perseverance of Christs followers. The gift of the Holy Spirit has been bestowed in abundance so that we may live lives of genuine faith and active charity. Come Holy Spirit Free us from being closed in on ourselves and instill in us the joy of proclaiming the Gospel. To communicate with mercy means to help create a healthy free and fraternal closeness among the children of God. If our hearts and actions are inspired by charity by divine love then our communication will be touched by Gods own power. Dear Religious wake up the world Be witnesses to a different way of thinking acting and living What we say and how we say it our every word and gesture ought to express Gods compassion tenderness and forgiveness for all. May todays challenges become forces for unity to overcome our fears and build together a better future for Europe and the world. Jesus ascended into heaven is now in the lordship of God present in every space and time close to each one of us.  Love by its nature is communication it leads to openness and sharing. ComMisericordia Christ is our greatest joy he is always at our side and will never let us down. The Lord consoles us. We are all called to comfort our brothers and sisters to testify that God alone can eliminate the causes of tragedies May the challenges in the ecumenical journey encourage us to know each other better pray together and unite in works of charity. Jesus Christ the incarnation of Gods mercy out of love for us died on the cross and out of love he rose again from the dead. There is the grave problem of labour because of the high rate of young adults unemployed but also for the issue of the dignity of work. I address a cordial greeting to the faithful of the Eastern Churches who are celebrating Holy Pascha today. Work is proper to the human person and expresses the dignity of being created in the image of God. Jesus conquered evil at the root he is the Door of Salvation open wide so that each person may find mercy. Before the spiritual and moral abysses of mankind only Gods infinite mercy can bring us salvation. Christian hope is a gift that God gives us if we come out of ourselves and open our hearts to him. Let us break open our sealed tombs to the Lord each of us knows what they are so that he may enter and grant us life. All are called to love and cherish family life for families are not a problem they are first and foremost an opportunity. Dear Young People with the grace of God you can become authentic and courageous Christians witnesses to love and peace. Dear Young Friends your names are written in heaven in the merciful heart of the Father. Be brave and go against the tide A true ecological approach knows how to safeguard the environment and justice hearing the cry of the earth and the cry of the poor. Climate change represents one of the principal challenges facing humanity today and the response requires the solidarity of all. To form a family is to be a part of Gods dream to join him in building a world where no one will feel alone. The royal road to peace is to see others not as enemies to be opposed but as brothers and sisters to be embraced. We pray for the earthquake victims in Ecuador and Japan. May God and all our brothers and sisters give them help and support. Each vocation in the Church has its origin in the compassionate gaze of Jesus who forgives us and calls us to follow Him. Today is Benedict XVIs birthday. Let us remember him in our prayers and thank God for giving him to the Church and the world. Refugees are not numbers they are people who have faces names stories and need to be treated as such. In the darkest hours of a familys life union with Jesus can help avoid a breakup. Love is the only light which can constantly illuminate a world grown dim. The Lords presence dwells in families with all their daily troubles and struggles joys and hopes. The way of the Church is not to condemn anyone for ever it is to pour out the balm of Gods mercy. The Church must pattern her behavior after the Son of God who went out to everyone without exception. To understand forgive accompany and integrate. That is the mindset which should prevail in the Church. It is essential that children see that prayer is something truly important for their parents. The home is the place where we learn to appreciate the beauty of the faith to pray and serve our neighbor. The family is where we first learn to listen and share to be patient and show respect to help one another. Children are a wonderful gift from God and a joy for parents. Fidelity has to do with patience. Its joys and sacrifices bear fruit as the years go by. To know how to forgive and feel forgiven is a basic experience in family life. The divorced who have entered a new union should be made to feel part of the Church. They are not excommunicated. Open and caring families find a place for the poor. It is important for a child to feel wanted. He or she is not an accessory or a solution to some personal need. Each new life allows us to appreciate the utterly gratuitous dimension of love. Love opens our eyes and enables us to see the great worth of a human being. In our families we must learn to imitate Jesus own gentleness. Every family despite its weaknesses can become a light in the darkness of the world. Our teaching on marriage and the family cannot fail to be inspired by the message of love and tenderness. The strength of the family lies in its capacity to love and to teach how to love. No one can think that the weakening of the family will prove beneficial to society as a whole. People with disabilities are a gift for the family and an opportunity to grow in love mutual aid and unity. The family is a good which society cannot do without and it ought to be protected. The welfare of the family is decisive for the future of the world. The word of God is a source of comfort for every family that experiences difficulty or suffering. The family is the place where parents become their childrens first teachers in the faith. The Joy of Love experienced by families is also the joy of the Church. I encourage you to bear witness to Christ in your personal life and families a witness of gratuitousness solidarity spirit of service. The Jubilee is a yearlong celebration in which every moment becomes a chance for us to grow in holiness. The Lord asks us to be men and women who radiate the truth beauty and the lifechanging power of the Gospel. Christian faith is a gift which we receive in Baptism and which allows us to encounter God. Mercy the bridge that connects God and man opening our hearts to the hope of being loved forever despite our sinfulness. To be merciful means to grow in a love which is courageous generous and real. Passing through the Holy Door let us put our trust in Gods grace which can change our lives. The phenomenon of migration raises a serious cultural issue which necessarily demands a response. If we open ourselves up to welcome Gods mercy for ourselves in turn we become capable of forgiveness. Jesus shows us the real face of God for whom power does not mean destruction but love and for whom justice is not vengeance but mercy. Every Christian is a Christopher that is a bearer of Christ Jesus Christ is risen Love has triumphed over hatred life has conquered death light has dispelled the darkness To live Easter means to enter into the mystery of Jesus who died and rose for us. The Cross is the word through which God has responded to evil in the world. Impress Lord in our hearts the sentiments of faith hope love and sorrow for our sins. Jesus loved us. Jesus loves us. Without limit always to the end. Annointed with the oil of gladness to pass on the joy of the Gospel. With how much love Jesus looks at us With how much love He heals our sinful heart Our sins never scare Him. I entrust to Gods mercy all those who lost their lives. Brussels Let us take our Christian calling seriously and commit to live as believers. Let us come to Him and let us not be afraid Let us come to Him and say from the depths of our hearts Jesus I trust in You I am beginning a new journey on Instagram to walk with you along the path of mercy and the tenderness of God. The greater the sin the greater the love that must be shown by the Church to those who repent. No one can be excluded from the mercy of God. The Church is the house where everyone is welcomed and no one is rejected. As we exit the confessional we will feel his strength which gives new life and restores ardor to the faith. After confession we are reborn. God is truly rich in mercy and extends it abundantly upon those who appeal to Him with a sincere heart. The Sacrament of Reconciliation allows us to draw near to the Father with trust to have the certainty of his forgiveness. Pray for me. ... That families in need may receive the necessary support and that children may grow up in healthy and peaceful environments. God has caressed us with his mercy. Let us bring Gods tender caress to others to those who are in need. Small gestures of love of tenderness of care make people feel that the Lord is with us. This is how the door of mercy opens. My life my attitude the way of going through life must really be a concrete sign of the fact that God is close to us. The Jubilee of Mercy is a propitious occasion to promote in the world ways to respect life and the dignity of each person. May the Lord free us from all temptation that separates us from what is essential in our mission and help rediscover the beauty of faith. Jesus Christ with his closeness and tenderness leads sinners into the place of grace and pardon. This is the mercy of God. Open your heart to mercy Divine mercy is stronger than the sins of men Thank you to Mexico and to all Mexicans. May the Lord and the Blessed Virgin of Guadalupe accompany you always. I have felt welcomed and received with affection and hope by the Mexican people. Thank you for opening the doors to your lives. Tears can generate a fracture which is able to open ourselves for conversion. Do not forget that the mercy of God is our shield and strength against injustice destruction and oppression. Earnings and capital are not more important than the human person but should be at the service of the common good. All of us must struggle so that work can become a reality of humanization and a positive future. Dear prisoners while you have experienced great pain you can become prophets of a better society without violence and exclusion. Celebrating the Jubilee of Mercy means learning how to not remain prisoners of the past. It means believing things can be different. The mercy of Jesus embraces everyone in every part of the world open your hearts Jesus would never ask us to be assassins he calls us to be disciples. He would never send us to die. He invites us to life. You have asked me for a word of hope what I have to offer you has a name Jesus Christ. In Jesus I have met the one who is able to bring out the best in me. Our first calling is to learn how to say the Our Father. Father help us to avoid the temptation of resignation. We learn how to pray just as we do to walk speak and listen. If you tell me how you pray I can tell you how you live. I prefer a family with a tired face from sacrifices made rather than a pretty one which is unfamiliar with tenderness and compassion. Among the poor being treated worst is our planet. We cannot pretend all is fine in the face of the great environmental crisis. In the heart of every person is a desire to live in freedom in a place where change is possible in fellowship and solidarity. Jesus is waiting for us and wants to heal our hearts of all that tears us down. He is the God who has a name Mercy. May the Lord help us overcome the temptations of wealth vanity and pride which seek to destroy the truth of the Gospel. Lent is a time for reconsidering our feelings for letting our eyes be opened to injustice to open our hearts to those suffering. Simply looking at you O Mother to have eyes only for you looking upon you without saying anything... Mary is the woman who says yes a yes of surrender to God a yes of surrender to her brothers and sisters. May we follow her example. Mexico has a young face. This makes it possible to contemplate and plan for a future for a tomorrow. This offers hope. Dear Mexican friends you are in my heart. Let us put our trust in the Blessed Virgin of Guadalupe who always looks on us with tenderness. Today is a day of grace. The meeting with Patriarch Kirill is a gift from God. Pray for us. In Mexico I will look into the eyes of the Virgin Mary and implore her to look upon us always with mercy. I entrust my journey to her. Entering through the Holy Door means discovering the depths of the Fathers mercy who seeks each of us personally. God wants to live amidst his sons and daughters. Let us make space for him in our hearts. Mary Mother of Jesus help us to share the wonders of the Lord with all whom we meet on the way. As Christians we cannot be selfcentred but must always be open to others and for others. In todays society in which forgiveness is so rare mercy is ever more important. The Gospel calls us to be close to the poor and forgotten and to give them real hope. Every Christian community should be an oasis of charity and warmth in the midst of a desert of solitude and indifference. When we entrust ourselves to the Lord we can overcome all obstacles that we encounter on the way. When the world slumbers in comfort and selfishness our Christian mission is to help it rouse from sleep. In Jesus of Nazareth mercy has appeared and lives MV . Let us thank God who is merciful and ever at our side MV . No one can put limits on Gods love for he is always ready to forgive MV . The mercy of God will always be greater than any sin MV . Let us pray for Christians suffering persecution often amid the shameful silence of so many. When Christ is your friend you have joy serenity happiness. God is in love with us. He becomes small to help us love him in return. However grave our sin God responds with total forgiveness MV . Mercy is the path uniting God with man for it opens the heart to the hope of an eternal love MV . One goal for each day to convey the tenderness of Christ to those who are most in need. May the Jubilee of Mercy bring us all closer to Gods goodness and love God Bless Africa The time has come for new messengers of Christ ever more generous more joyful and more holy Christians and Muslims are brothers and sisters and we must act as such. The Jubilee Year of Mercy reminds us that God is waiting for us with open arms just like the father of the prodigal son. Where there is violence and hatred Christians are called to witness to the God who is Love. I come to the Central African Republic as a pilgrim of peace and as an apostle of hope. I have great hope for Africa and for the harvest of grace that the Lord is preparing in your midst. Uganda has experienced the witness of Christian martyrs. May they help us spread the joy of the Gospel without fear. The world is witnessing an unprecedented migration of peoples. I want to thank Uganda for its generosity in welcoming refugees. May my visit to Africa be a sign of the Churchs esteem for all religions and strengthen our bonds of friendship. Mungu abariki Kenya God bless Kenya All human persons all of us are important in Gods eyes. I am happy to pray today with the Lutheran community in Rome. May God bless all who work for dialogue and Christian unity. I am deeply saddened by the terrorist attacks in Paris. Please join me in prayer for the victims and their families. PrayersForParis As Christians we are called to imitate the Good Shepherd and to help families experiencing difficulties. Vanity not only distances us from God it makes us look ridiculous. Let us ask the help of Saint Michael the Archangel to defend us from the snares of the devil. Parents can you waste time with your children It is one of the most important things that you can do each day. Economic development needs to have a human face so that no one will be excluded. In the poor we see the face of Christ who for our sake became poor. Corruption is a cancer on society. Dear young friends do not be afraid to give your all. Christ will never disappoint you. Let us learn solidarity. Without solidarity our faith is dead. Work is important but so too is rest. Shouldnt we learn to respect times of rest especially Sundays Dear young friends ask the Lord for a free heart so as not to be ensnared by the false pleasures of the world. The faith is not a gift just for me. Faith is given to be joyfully shared. Our life is not a pointless wandering. We have a sure goal the house of the Father. With my heartfelt thanks. May the love of Christ always guide the American people GodBlessAmerica Thank you to the Cuban people Thank you from my heart I ask you to join me in praying for my trip to Cuba and the United States. I need your prayers. In spite of injustices and sufferings the Lords victory is certain. God loves the lowly. When we live humbly he takes our small efforts and creates great things. Every time that we make the sign of the cross we draw closer to the great mystery of the Trinity. Do we say Thank you to God every day May every parish and religious community in Europe host a refugee family. Jubilee refugeeswelcome Let us ask Our Lady to help all families especially those affected by unemployment. War is the mother of all poverty a vast predator of lives and souls. Today is the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation. Let us work and pray. Lord help us always to be more generous and closer to poor families. A Christian who is too attached to riches has lost his way. Reading the Gospel each day helps us to overcome our selfishness and to follow Jesus our Teacher with dedication. When we experience the merciful love of the Father we are more able to share this joy with our neighbour. Marys life shows that God accomplishes great deeds through those who are the most humble. Mary is full of grace. She is a sure refuge for us in times of temptation. The encounter with Christ can completely change our life. We are all sinners. Let us be transformed by Gods mercy. We learn many virtues in our Christian families. Above all we learn to love asking nothing in return. Let us allow the love of God to take deep root within us. In so doing we will be able to give ourselves to others. Hospitality in families is a crucial virtue today especially in situations of great poverty. The most powerful witness to marriage is the exemplary lives of Christian spouses. Dear young friends do not be afraid of marriage Christ accompanies with his grace all spouses who remain united to him. Christian witness is concrete words without actions are empty. The one who helps the sick and needy touches the flesh of Christ alive and present in our midst. The Church is called to be ever more attentive and caring toward the weak. When everything falls apart only one thing sustains our hope God loves us he loves everyone Now is the time for a change in mindset and to stop pretending that our actions do not affect those who suffer from hunger. That which gives us true freedom and true happiness is the compassionate love of Christ. A great challenge stop ruining the garden which God has entrusted to us so that all may enjoy it. How wonderful it is to proclaim to everyone the love of God which saves us and gives meaning to our lives The Church is a mother with an open heart ready to help all people especially those who try the hardest In Confession Jesus welcomes us with all our sinfulness to give us a new heart capable of loving as he loves. Gods love is free. He asks for nothing in return all he wants is for his love to be accepted. Lord seize us with your power and light help us to protect all life to prepare for a better future. LaudatoSi Let us sing as we go. May our struggles and our concern for this planet never take away the joy of our hope. An integral ecology includes taking time to reflect on our lifestyle and our ideals. LaudatoSi Christian spirituality proposes an alternative understanding of the quality of life. Living our vocation to be protectors of Gods handiwork is not a secondary aspect of our Christian experience. The teachings of the Gospel have direct consequences for our way of thinking feeling and living. LaudatoSi The emptier a persons heart is the more he or she needs to buy own and consume. LaudatoSi Many things have to change course but it is we human beings above all who need to change. Believers must feel challenged to live in a way consonant with their faith. LaudatoSi We know how unsustainable is the behaviour of those who constantly consume and destroy. A decrease in the pace of production and consumption can at times give rise to another form of progress and development. Reducing greenhouse gases requires honesty courage and responsibility. LaudatoSi Interdependence obliges us to think of one world with a common plan. Leaving an inhabitable planet to future generations is first and foremost up to us. What is at stake is our own dignity. What kind of world do we want to leave to those who come after us to children who are now growing up The world we have received also belongs to who will follow us. LaudatoSi Having a home has much to do with a sense of personal dignity and the growth of families. LaudatoSi For indigenous communities land is not a commodity but a gift from God a sacred space. We need an integrated approach to combating poverty and protecting nature. It is contrary to human dignity to cause animals to suffer or die needlessly. LaudatoSi The culture of relativism drives one person to take advantage of another to treat others as mere objects. Christian thought sees human beings as possessing a particular dignity above other creatures. There is an urgent need for us to move forward in a bold cultural revolution. LaudatoSi Scientific and technological progress cannot be equated with the progress of humanity and history. By itself the market cannot guarantee integral human development and social inclusion. We are learning all too slowly the lessons of environmental deterioration. LaudatoSi It is possible that we dont grasp the gravity of the challenges before us. LaudatoSi Each age tends to have only a meagre awareness of its own limitations. Never has humanity had such power over itself yet nothing ensures that it will be used wisely. For believers this becomes a question of fidelity to the Creator. Earth is essentially a shared inheritance whose fruits are meant to benefit everyone. LaudatoSi We continue to tolerate some considering themselves more worthy than others. We should be particularly indignant at the enormous inequalities in our midst. LaudatoSi At times more zeal is shown in protecting other species than in defending the equal dignity of human beings. A fragile world challenges us to devise intelligent ways of directing developing and limiting our power. Every creature is the object of the Fathers tenderness who gives it its place in the world. Creation has a broader meaning than nature it has to do with Gods loving plan. LaudatoSi Each community has the duty to protect the earth and to ensure its fruitfulness for coming generations. The present world system is certainly unsustainable from a number of points of view. LaudatoSi We need only to take a frank look at the facts to see that our common home is falling into serious disrepair. LaudatoSi Whatever is fragile like the environment is defenceless before the interests of a deified market. The alliance between economy and technology ends up sidelining anything unrelated to its immediate interests. Economic interests easily end up trumping the common good. There is no room for the globalization of indifference. LaudatoSi Developed countries ought to help pay this debt by limiting their consumption of nonrenewable energy. A true ecological debt exists particularly between the global north and south. To blame population growth and not an extreme consumerism on the part of some is one way of refusing to face the issues. We have to hear both the cry of the earth and the cry of the poor. LaudatoSi The deterioration of the environment and of society affect the most vulnerable people on the planet. The human environment and the natural environment deteriorate together. One particularly serious problem is the quality of water available to the poor. LaudatoSi These problems are closely linked to a throwaway culture. The earth our home is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth. Climate change represents one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day. LaudatoSi The climate is a common good belonging to all and meant for all. To commit a crime against the natural world is a sin against ourselves and a sin against God. Patriarch Bartholomew The throwaway culture of today calls for a new lifestyle. LaudatoSi There is a value proper to each creature. There is a need to seek other ways of understanding the economy and progress. LaudatoSi There is an intimate relationship between the poor and the fragility of the planet. LaudatoSi We need a new dialogue about how we are shaping the future of our planet. LaudatoSi I invite all to pause to think about the challenges we face regarding care for our common home. LaudatoSi Today the Church is a Church of martyrs so many heroic witnesses. May we learn from their courage. Where there is no work there is no dignity. In the Sacrament of the Eucharist we find God who gives himself. We need to build up society in the light of the Beatitudes walking towards the Kingdom with the least among us. The light of the Gospel guides all who put themselves at the service of the civilization of love. Lord grant us the awesome gift of meeting you. Christians are witnesses not to a theory but to a Person Christ risen and alive the one Saviour of all. We can observe the Fourth Commandment by loving visits to our aging grandparents. Let us invoke the Holy Spirit each day He guides us along the path of discipleship in Christ. Lord send forth your Holy Spirit to bring consolation and strength to persecuted Christians. freepray There are times when God is silent a silence which cannot be understood unless we gaze upon Christ crucified. God is always waiting for us he always understands us he always forgives us. It is better to have a Church that is wounded but out in the streets than a Church that is sick because it is closed in on itself. Dear parents have great patience and forgive from the depths of your heart. Why is it so difficult to tolerate the faults of others Have we forgotten that Jesus bore our sins Let us learn to live with kindness to love everyone even when they do not love us. When we cannot earn our own bread we lose our dignity. This is a tragedy today especially for the young. It is good for us to spend time before the Tabernacle to feel the gaze of Jesus upon us. The love of Christ fills our hearts and makes us always able to forgive Amid so many problems even grave may we not lose our hope in the infinite mercy of God. Every Christian community must be a welcoming home for those searching for Godfor those searching for a brother or sister to listen to them We Christians are called to go out of ourselves to bring the mercy and tenderness of God to all. In the Sacraments we discover the strength to think and to act according to the Gospel. We need to care for the earth so that it may continue as God willed to be a source of life for the entire human family. Mary Mother of Sorrows help us to understand Gods will in moments of great suffering. The Lord never tires of forgiving us. It is we who get tired of asking for pardon. We can bring the Gospel to others only if it has made a deep impact in our lives. Lord give us the gift of tears the ability to cry for our sins and so receive your forgiveness. Lord help us to live the virtue of generosity to love without limits. Christ is risen Christ is alive and journeys with us The Cross of Christ is not a defeat the Cross is love and mercy. Jesus washes the feet of the Apostles. Are we ready to serve others like this Confession is the sacrament of the tenderness of God his way of embracing us. Holy Week is a privileged time when we are called to draw near to Jesus friendship with him is shown in times of difficulty. As disciples of Christ how can we not be concerned for the good of the weakest Life is a precious gift but we realize this only when we give it to others. The laity are called to become a leaven of Christian living within society. Suffering is a call to conversion it reminds us of our frailty and vulnerability. May every Church and Christian community be a place of mercy amid so much indifference. Let us allow God to fill our hearts with his goodness and mercy. Lent is a time for drawing near to Christ by listening to the word of God and celebrating the sacraments. Beware of getting too comfortable When we are comfortable its easy to forget other people. In the roughest moments remember God is our Father God does not abandon his children. Humility saves man pride makes him lose his way. Let us build our lives of faith on the rock who is Christ. If we are too attached to riches we are not free. We are slaves. The heart grows hard when it does not love. Lord give us a heart that knows how to love. Jesus intercedes for us each day. Let us pray Lord have mercy on me intercede for me There is no sin that God cannot pardon. All we need to do is ask for forgiveness. The Sacraments are the manifestation of the Fathers tenderness and love towards each of us. Wherever there are men and women who have consecrated their lives to God there you find joy. Lord grant us the grace to know we are sinners. During Lent let us find concrete ways to overcome our indifference. Jesus came to bring joy to everyone in every age. Jesus is not a figure from the past he continues now and always to light the way for us. Having faith does not mean having no difficulties but having the strength to face them knowing we are not alone. We are all sinners. We are all called to a conversion of heart. A credible witness to truth and to the values of the Gospel is urgently needed. True love does not pay attention to the evil it suffers. It rejoices in doing good. Auschwitz cries out with the pain of immense suffering and pleads for a future of respect peace and encounter among peoples. Practicing charity is the best way to evangelize. Every Life is a Gift. marchforlife Sa aking mga kaibigan sa Sri Lanka at Pilipinas Naway pagpalain kayo ng Diyos. Sanay patuloy niyo akong ipagdasal. To my friends in Sri Lanka and the Philippines May God bless you all Please pray for me. Madalas nating makalimutang pagtuunan ng pansin ang mga bagay na talagang mahalaga. Nakakalimutan natin na tayoy Anak ng Diyos. How often we forget to dedicate ourselves to that which truly matters We forget that we are children of God. Bilang Kristiyano miyembro ng pamilya ng Diyos tinatawag tayo upang hanapin at paglingkuran ang lahat ng mga nangangailangan. We who are Christians members of Gods family are called to go out to the needy and to serve them. Ang kahabagan ng Diyos ang kanyang sakripisyo ay nagbibigay saysay at halaga sa lahat ng ating paghihirap. The compassion of God his sufferingwithus gives meaning and worth to our struggles and our sufferings. Ang pamilya ay ang pinakamahalagang kayamanan ng isang bansa. Naway pagsikapan nating ipagtanggol at patatagin itong pundasyon ng lipunan. The family is the greatest treasure of any country. Let us all work to protect and strengthen this the cornerstone of society. Ang Pilipinas ay patunay ng kabataan at kasiglahan ng Simbahan. The Philippines bear witness to the youthfulness and vitality of the Church.  . May God bless and protect Sri Lanka. Saint Joseph Vaz teach us to grow in holiness and to live the Gospels message of mercy. Please pray with me for everyone in Sri Lanka and the Philippines as I begin my trip. Sunday is the Lords Day. Let us find time to be with him. PrayersForParis Jesus came to save us let us not reject this marvellous gift Lord help us to recognize you in the sick poor and suffering. Christianity spreads through the joy of disciples who know that they are loved and saved. How many innocent people and children suffer in the world Lord grant us your peace Lord thank you Today people are suffering from poverty but also from lack of love. The Christian family is missionary it announces the love of God to the world. Let us pray today for all those who are persecuted for their Christian faith. With Jesus there is true joy. May we try to listen and be silent in order to make space for the beauty of God. At times we are slaves of sin. Lord come to free us If Jesus is to become the centre of our life we need to spend time in his presence before the Tabernacle. The Lord put it clearly you cannot serve two masters. You have to choose between God and money. It is so important to listen Husbands and wives need to communicate to bring happiness and serenity to family life. Today is my anniversary of ordination to the priesthood. Please pray for me and all priests. Our Lady of Guadalupe pray for us Ecology is essential for the survival of mankind it is a moral issue which affects all of us. The family is a community of love where each of us learns to relate to others and to the world around us. Let us learn from the Virgin Mary how to be bolder in obeying the word of God. My video message for Iraqi Christians Advent begins a new journey. May Mary our Mother be our guide. Advent increases our hope a hope which does not disappoint. The Lord never lets us down. Slaves no more. We are all brothers and sisters. EndSlavery The Church is called to draw near to every person beginning with the poorest and those who suffer. Love is the measure of faith. When we meet a person truly in need do we see the face of God Let us seek to live in a way that is always worthy of our Christian vocation. There is so much noise in the world May we learn to be silent in our hearts and before God. A Christian brings peace to others. Not only peace but also love kindness faithfulness and joy. War destroys kills impoverishes. Lord give us your peace Work is so important for human dignity for building up a family for peace I ask all people of goodwill to help build a culture of encounter solidarity and peace. fotw The Church is ever on a journey seeking new ways to announce the Gospel. Indifference towards those in need is not acceptable for a Christian. Being humble helps us share the burdens of others. A good example brings about so much good but hypocrisy brings about much evil. The principal mission of the Church is evangelization bringing the Good News to everyone. May we help people to discover the joy of the Christian message a message of love and mercy. Jesus Cross shows the full force of evil but also the full power of Gods mercy. The family is where we are formed as people. Every family is a brick in the building of society. If faith is to be strong and healthy it must be constantly nourished by the Word of God. To change the world we must be good to those who cannot repay us. A Christian is merciful by nature this is heart of the Gospel. O Lord comfort all those who suffer especially the sick the poor and the unemployed. The spiritual power of the Sacraments is boundless. With grace we can overcome every obstacle. Dear young people Christ is counting on you to be his friends and witnesses to his infinite love. Let us ask the Lord for the grace not to speak badly of others not to criticize not to gossip but rather to love everyone. Come Holy Spirit. Bestow upon us your gifts during the Synod. prayforsynod As we begin the Synod on the Family let us ask the Lord to show us the way forward. prayforsynod As Jesus told Martha in the Gospel one thing is necessary prayer. praywithus Happy families are essential for the Church and for society. prayforsynod A Synod means walking together but also praying together. I ask all the faithful to participate. praywithus Division within a Christian community is a very grave sin it is the work of the devil. There is the tendency to place ourselves and our ambitions at the center of our lives. This is very human but it is not Christian. Jesus understands our weaknesses and sins and he forgives us if we allow ourselves to be forgiven. When a society lacks God even prosperity is joined by a terrible spiritual poverty. Dear young people listen within Christ is knocking at the door of your heart. Mary give us the grace of being joyful as we walk in the freedom of the children of God. The Lord is always there waiting to give us his love it is an amazing thing one which never ceases to surprise us Despite our sins we can say with Peter Lord you know everything you know that I love you. We cannot trust in our own strength but only in Jesus and in his mercy. Gods faithfulness is stronger than our unfaithfulness and our infidelities. Jesus is the Good Shepherd. He seeks us out and he stays near us even though we are sinners indeed because we are sinners. I pray every day for all who are suffering in Iraq. Please join me. Our Christian witness is authentic when it is faithful and unconditional. The Christian who does not feel that the Virgin Mary is his or her mother is an orphan. The Lord always forgives us and walks at our side. We have to let him do that. From the cross Christ teaches us to love even those who do not love us. Gods love is unbounded it has no limits Christians knows how to give. Their lives are filled with generous acts often hidden towards their neighbour. Let us ask the Lord for this grace that our hearts become free and filled with light so that we can rejoice as children of God. . .Philippines SriLanka Thank you my friends in Korea. God willing I will be back in Asia very soon. Philippines SriLanka So many innocent people have been driven from their homes in Iraq. Lord we pray they may go back soon. . Trust in the power of Christs Cross Receive his reconciling grace and share it Lord with so much violence in Iraq may we persevere in our prayer and generosity. . . It is by Gods mercy that we are saved. May we never tire of spreading this joyful message to the world.  Let us pray that the Church be holier and more humble loving God by serving the poor the lonely and the sick. Let us not forget the cry of Christians and all vulnerable populations in Iraq. . . The martyrs teach us that wealth prestige and honor have little importance Christ is the only true treasure. My heart bleeds especially when I think of the children in Iraq. May Mary Our Mother protect them. . Dear young people Christ asks you to be wide awake and alert to see the things in life that really matter. . Mary Queen of Heaven help us to transform the world according to Gods plan. Mary Queen of Peace help us to root out hatred and live in harmony. . Saint John Paul II pray for us and especially for our youth. . May God bless Korea and in a special way the elderly and the young people. I thank all those who are courageously helping our brothers and sisters in Iraq. . As I begin my trip I ask you to join me in praying for Korea and for all of Asia. An appeal to all families when you say your prayers remember all those forced from their homes in Iraq. PrayForPeace The news coming from Iraq pains me. Lord teach us to live in solidarity with all those who suffer. Those driven from their homes in Iraq depend on us. I ask all to pray and for those who are able to give material assistance. Violence is not conquered by violence. Lord send us the gift of peace. prayforpeace I ask the international community to protect all those suffering violence in Iraq. I ask all Catholic parishes and communities to offer a special prayer this weekend for Iraqi Christians. Lord we pray that you sustain those who have been deprived of everything in Iraq. prayforpeace Please take a moment today to pray for all those who have been forced from their homes in Iraq. PrayForPeace I ask all men and women of goodwill to join me in praying for Iraqi Christians and all vulnerable populations. The Christian is someone who can decrease so that the Lord may increase in his heart and in the heart of others. If you hoard material possessions they will rob you of your soul. When we do not adore God we adore something else. Money and power are false idols which often take the place of God. May each family rediscover family prayer which helps to bring about mutual understanding and forgiveness. May we be always more grateful for the help of domestic workers and caregivers theirs is a precious service. When one lives attached to money pride or power it is impossible to be truly happy. The great threat in todays world is the loneliness of hearts oppressed by greed. The Lord loves a cheerful giver. May we learn to be generous in giving free from the love of material possessions. The Church by her nature is missionary. She exists so that every man and woman may encounter Jesus. Dear young people do not be mediocre the Christian life challenges us with great ideals. The World Cup allowed people from different countries and religions to come together. May sport always promote the culture of encounter. Do not be afraid to cast yourselves into the arms of God whatever he asks of you he will repay a hundredfold. With God nothing is lost but without him everything is lost. Dear young people do not give up your dreams of a more just world To live as true children of God means to love our neighbour and to be close to those who are lonely and in difficulty. Jesus help us to love God as Father and our neighbour as ourselves. May Saints Peter and Paul bless the city of Rome and the entire pilgrim Church throughout the world. To be friends with God means to pray with simplicity like children talking to their parents. In the face of lifes difficulties let us ask the Lord for the strength to remain joyful witnesses to our faith. The family is essential to sustaining human and social development. How I wish everyone had decent work It is essential for human dignity. Let us pray for the Christian communities in the Middle East that they may continue to live in the land where Christianity was born. There is so much indifference in the face of suffering. May we overcome indifference with concrete acts of charity. There is never a reason to lose hope. Jesus says I am with you until the end of the world. Sometimes we cast the elderly aside but they are a precious treasure to cast them aside is an injustice and an irreparable loss. May the Lord bless the family and strengthen it in this moment of crisis. We run the risk of forgetting the suffering which doesnt affect us personally. May we respond to it and may we pray for peace in Syria. May we not resist the Holy Spirit but allow him to work in our lives so that he can renew us the Church and the world. I wish everyone a wonderful World Cup played in a spirit of true fraternity. Let us pray for all victims of sexual violence in conflict and those working to end this crime. TimeToAct May we never talk about others behind their backs but speak to them openly about what we think. I ask all people of good will to join us today in praying for peace in the Middle East. weprayforpeace Prayer is allpowerful. Let us use it to bring peace to the Middle East and peace to the world. weprayforpeace Peace is a gift of God but requires our efforts. Let us be people of peace in prayer and deed. weprayforpeace Like the Good Samaritan may we not be ashamed of touching the wounds of those who suffer but try to heal them with concrete acts of love. Thank you to all teachers educating is an important mission which draws young people to what is good beautiful and true. At times we can be selfabsorbed. Lord help us to open our hearts to others and to serve those who are most vulnerable. In the difficult moments of life Christians can turn to the Mother of God and find protection and care. Every Christian can witness to God in the workplace not only with words but above all with an honest life. May we enter into true friendship with Jesus so that following him closely we may live with and for him. Dear friends please pray for me during my pilgrimage to the Holy Land. To live by faith means to put our lives in the hands of God especially in our most difficult moments. We will never be disillusioned or lose our way if we are guided by God. I ask all of you to pray for the victims of the floods in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Serbia and in other countries in the region. Come Holy Spirit Help us to overcome our selfishness. The one who listens attentively to the Word of God and truly prays always asks the Lord what is your will for me The month of May dedicated to Mary is a fitting time to begin to recite the rosary daily. Our mission as Christians is to conform ourselves evermore to Jesus as the model of our lives. Let us ask the Holy Spirit for the grace to live daily according to the mind of Jesus and his Gospel. Let us pray for the miners who died in Turkey and for the latest victims of shipwreck in the Mediterranean. Let us read the Gospel a small section each day. This way we will learn what is most essential in our lives love and mercy. Our life has been saved by the blood of Christ. Let us always be renewed by this love. Let us all join in prayer for the immediate release of the schoolgirls kidnapped in Nigeria.BringBackOurGirls A family enlightened by the Gospel provides a school for Christian living There one learns faithfulness patience and sacrifice. Holiness means giving ourselves in sacrifice every day. And so married life is a tremendous path to sanctity In our families we learn to love and to recognise the dignity of all especially of the elderly. A society which abandons children and the elderly severs its roots and darkens its future. What does evangelise mean To give witness with joy and simplicity to what we are and what we believe in. Do not be afraid Open the doors to Christ No one is more patient than God the Father no one understands and knows how to wait as much as he does. I ask everyone with political responsibility to remember two things human dignity and the common good. Who among us can presume to be free of sin No one. Let us ask God to forgive our sins. Inequality is the root of social evil. None of us can think we are exempt from concern for the poor and for social justice EG . We must not let ourselves fall into the vortex of pessimism. Faith can move mountains A simple lifestyle is good for us helping us to better share with those in need. Each encounter with Jesus fills us with joy with that deep joy which only God can give. Christ is risen Alleluia Please join me in praying for the victims of the ferry disaster in Korea and their families It is not easy to follow Jesus closely because the path he chooses is the way of the Cross. Each encounter with Jesus changes our life. Holy Week is a good occasion to go to confession and to take up the right path again. How beautiful it is to stand before the Crucifix simply to be under the Lords gaze so full of love. EG Only trust in God can transform doubts into certainty evil into good night into radiant dawn. Jesus teaches us to not be ashamed of touching human misery of touching his flesh in our brothers and sisters who suffer. EG We need to rediscover a contemplative spirit so that the love of God may warm our hearts. How good it is for us when the Lord unsettles our lukewarm and superficial lives. In the Gospel we can hear Jesus speaking to us every day may we always carry with us a small copy of the Gospel With Jesus our life becomes full. With him everything makes sense. EG May we never get used to the poverty and decay around us. A Christian must act. Dear parents teach your children to pray. Pray with them. Lent is a time to change direction to respond to the reality of evil and poverty. We live in a society that leaves no room for God day by day this numbs our hearts. We all need to improve to change for the better. Lent helps us fight against our faults. Lent is a time of grace a time to convert and live out our baptism fully. We cannot be tepid disciples. The Church needs our courage in order to give witness to truth. Jesus is never far from us sinners. He wants to pour out on us without limit all of his mercy. Jesus is our hope. Nothing not even evil or death is able to separate us from the saving power of his love. Sickness and death are not taboo subjects. They are realities that we must face in Jesus presence. May we learn to say thank you to God and to one another. We teach children to do it and then we forget to do it ourselves I greet the World School Network for Encounter. Today we plant the first virtual olive tree for peace. infoscholas Christian love is loving without counting the cost. This is the lesson of the Good Samaritan this is the lesson of Jesus. Thank you for all your warm wishes on my anniversary. Please continue praying for me. Please pray for me. The challenge for Christian spousesremaining together knowing how to love one another always and doing so in a way that their love grows. Our deepest joy comes from Christ remaining with him walking with him being his disciples. Let us pray for Christians who are victims of persecution so that they may know how to respond to evil with good. Lent is a good time for sacrificing. Let us deny ourselves something every day to help others. In life we all make many mistakes. Let us learn to recognize our errors and ask forgiveness. How to live a good marriage United to the Lord who always renews our love and strengthens it to overcome every difficulty. Let us thank all those who teach in Catholic schools. Educating is an act of love it is like giving life. The Eucharist is essential for us it is Christ who wishes to enter our lives and fill us with his grace. In a family it is normal to take charge of those who need help. Do not be afraid of frailty All of us who are baptized are missionary disciples. We are called to become a living Gospel in the world. Our Lady is always close to us especially when we feel the weight of life with all its problems. Let us never lose hope God loves us always even with our mistakes and sins. Confirmation is important for Christians it strengthens us to defend the faith and to spread the Gospel courageously. Lord Jesus make us capable of loving as you love. Let us learn from Christ how to pray to forgive to sow peace and to be near those in need. To all who are sick do not lose hope especially when your suffering is at its worst. Christ is near you. Let us pray for peace in Africa especially in the Central African Republic and in South Sudan. prayforpeace Dear young people dont be afraid to marry. A faithful and fruitful marriage will bring you happiness. Let us pray for seminarians that they may listen to the voice of the Lord and follow it with courage and joy. I greet all those who are sick and suffering. Christ Crucified is with you cling to him Today I ask you to join me in prayer for His Holiness Benedict XVI a man of great courage and humility. Let us pray for all good and faithful priests who dedicate themselves to their people with generosity and unknown sacrifices. The Sacraments especially Confession and the Eucharist are privileged places of encountering Christ. What zest life acquires when we allow ourselves to be filled by the love of God The world makes us look towards ourselves our possessions our desires.The Gospel invites us to be open to others to share with the poor. Dear young people Jesus gives us life life in abundance. If we are close to him we will have joy in our hearts and a smile on our face. It is important to have friends we can trust. But it is essential to trust the Lord who never lets us down. May the World Day of Consecrated Life be a timely occasion to rediscover the centrality of Jesus in our lives. Sometimes we are saddened by the weight of our sins. May we not be discouraged. Christ has come to lift this burden and give us peace. No one saves oneself. The community is essential. I cannot imagine a Christian who does not know how to smile. May we joyfully witness to our faith. Let us pray for Christian unity. There are so many beautiful things which unite us Dear young people let us not be satisfied with a mediocre life. Be amazed by what is true and beautiful what is of God It is easy to ask God for things we all do it. When will we also learn to give him thanks and to adore him We are called to live our baptism every day as new creatures clothed in Christ. Like Mary may we nurture the light born within us at Christmas. May we carry it everywhere in our daily lives. I join the March for Life in Washington with my prayers. May God help us respect all life especially the most vulnerable If we live the faith in our daily life then our work too becomes a chance to spread the joy of being a Christian. It is not enough to say we are Christians. We must live the faith not only with our words but with our actions. Wars shatter so many lives. I think especially of children robbed of their childhood. How powerful prayer is May we never lose the courage to say Lord give us your peace. Let us pray for peace and let us bring it about starting in our own homes May we always say thank you to God especially for his patience and mercy. The Lord is knocking at the door of our hearts. Have we put a sign on the door saying Do not disturb No elderly person should be like an exile in our families. The elderly are a treasure for our society. May we stop before the Child of Bethlehem and allow the tenderness of God to warm our hearts. Let us contemplate the humility of the Son of God born into poverty. Let us imitate him by sharing with those who are weak. Let us leave a spare place at our table a place for those who lack the basics who a