RT DawnHFoster A man has emailed to tell me I am a bad journalist because the statistics in my article are actually four years old.I wr RT sarahcuda OK I loved this story. so great on the unexpected strength of motherhoodexpectations of weakness RT GideonGil Top investor slashes Modernas valuation as company struggles to live up to its own hype via statne Really seriously... AI is not going to take your doctors job. thx u atulbutte RT CarolineYLChen Why do PR think that pitching me on pain companies right after I published a pain story makes sense Im not going to w RT ylichterman NYT is hiring a pets reporter. Required Pet ownership experiencedog andor cat at minimum other animals a plus https cwhogg Yep dont think anyone won in that equation. Especially not readers. cwhogg Well beg to differ. I think the tide is starting to turn with reporters looking for exclusivesdeeper stuff amp PR hasnt caught up. cwhogg Wish others were more like that cwhogg Maybe. But I make those decisions. Fundamentally Ill respond to you always bc you have made effort over th cwhogg Fundamentally dont believe that media relations should be outsourced. It didnt use to be. This is new. An cwhogg Ive had beat always. Different pubs but covered healthtech consistently. cwhogg Why do u want that tho Quality over quantity cwhogg Can name smart reporters who cover healthtech on one hand. And theyve all stayed put. SamirQamar Most do in my experience Trying to figure out if travel immunizations are covered by insurance is a friggin nightmare. Pharmacy charged out of pocket. cwhogg Its about relationships not transactions. cwhogg Understand but most reporters wont cover if being broadly pitched from someone they wont know. RT RockHealth No digitalhealth IPOs thus farconcerning Hardly. yrs average time to IPO for cos gone public in past yrs hallet RT mediatwit Theres a shortage of investigative tech journalists says CNBCs chrissyfarr sonipaul IRENICA RT stephaniemlee absolutely wild story about POOP TRANSPLANTS by nidhisubs RT AmolUtrankar chrissyfarr every day I spend h. transcribing h. labsdata from EMRs to paper for rounds then document it all back cwhogg augmetix Yah I do connect with ianshakil from time to time. We know each other from school Qs Im asking myself after reading about Apple GlassesWould docs wear them Could they be useful for transcription weirdo lovemybeat sethmhardy Thats clearly my goal One more request into the ether If you want to meet or talk to me emailtweetDM me yourself. Dont hire someone to do it. Like this take on AIhealth from gigabarb RT dseetharaman Those involved never got a clear reason for the decision. Interesting story by chrissyfarr. crauber Thats another level RT dariustahir chrissyfarr sometimes wisdom is just classy subtweeting dariustahir Cant I just drop wisdom dariustahir Lol Criticism means you your company is being taken seriously. Thats better than most. amalec Hah thx amalec Appreciate the This would have been interesting from a public health perspective. Overall a lot more FB could do in health. erikfinman MattRosoff Thats entirely possible RT RSFlinn Good idea would save lives. SCOOP gt Facebook was collaborating with researchers on a campaign for users to get flu vaccines. But it got canned RT levynews Thanks to my CNBC editors for letting me write this Thank you for writing this levynews gtWhile my son battles leukemia the health care system is under assault A good overview of Apples health ambitions based on my reporting for Fast Company amp CNBC. But missing glucose RampD. Healthtechdoc Thx gd read. But this story should really link back to my reporting which it is based on. RT ddiamond Dr. AtulGawande The Senate health bill threatens the nations health. newsdoc Yes sadly I think thats accurate Giving people access to health care is hard. Taking it away from those who have it is a hell of a lot harder. RT kennethn But heres the thing there are no healthy and sick people. Healthy people can turn into sick people really fucking s RT kennethn When a family member is this severely sick even the tiniest chance of going without health coverage is terrifying and me TheJGR But PR tends to be pitching funding updateslaunches which are rarely relevant beyond company. Scandals are a diff story. amalec it wont be today or it wont matter TheJGR I get why PR wants that. But it doesnt benefit readers or reporters to be spending time on corp announcements. Today is the day that I will understand why blockchain matters in health care. .RyanBethencourt says computationalAI bio startups are still a therapeutics not tech play its just a different type of platform RT ArthurCaplan drugprices RT ReutersTech Pharma bro Martin Shkreli heads into fraud trial levynews nateog heatherkelly CaitlinMcGarry Ohthatflo JoannaStern LaurenGoode itsnicolenguyen Hey health writers JCMcCracken is looking for a pharma reporter on digital jobs cnbc ashleymayer Main exceptions academic research big IPOs MampA investigations lawsuits. Not financing startup ex SFShag ashleymayer Yes Times are achangin ashleymayer Duno its gotta be something v special to warrant reporters working on same story vs different o asilverstein Most news that is under embargo doesnt warrant different takes. ashleymayer Audiences arent in monotonous relationships with a single outlet asilverstein In that case no embargo required. Just tell the smartest reporter in the space amp they can take time if its important Theres no good reason I can think of why the exact same information needs to appear in more than credible outlet. And yet embargoes... RT rebeccaruiz The word women literally never appears in the US Senates page healthcare bill via qz Need to talk to a life sciences biotech investor on deadline. DM me The tool that made this digital health app to go viral WhatsApp RT stilenius chrissyfarr an awesome overview of healthcare RT matthewherper Pretty great piece on Times editorial page. RT jacquimiller chrissyfarr Someone asked me recently If you had to divide your life so far into chapter and chapter what would be MilenaRodban Lol Great one RT qhardy chrissyfarr I just had a very good one hour conversation that begin with So what was it like when you heard your sentence Reflecting today on so many great qs to ask new people before so what do you do Mine whats the last great book you read Yours My latest column is on a digital health app in India that went viral on WhatsApp. Also it displays drug prices. nateog heatherkelly CaitlinMcGarry Ohthatflo JoannaStern LaurenGoode itsnicolenguyen BuzzFeedNews htsuka RT aliranger hellomountfuji conarck lalaurenista Well I know for sure that you can use it to find birth parents sperm donors. Wrote that up for FC After ire and reviewing big stories from the week feeling so much respect amp gratitude to sources who come forward on record. Thank you. RT aimeerawlins With cameras banned CNN sends sketch artist to White House briefing. by brianstelter Would have loved to see more panels on techbusiness journalism at ire investigations are so needed in Silicon Valley RT janeenevins Every a news outlet invests in investigative stories can generate s in net benefit to society. James Hamilton S RT EmeraldMorrow Simple but important reminder Do NOT take no as an answer from public officials when it comes to interview requests. RT conarck Did you know police can capture your DNA if you use Ancestry or and Me Me neither. Knowledge drop from lalaurenista IRE Great tips at ire on backgrounding folks that you quote. Also lots of reporters sharing horror stories. RT mcwellons Come join our team CNBC is hiring a politics editor gtgt RT FarrahFazal We all have it. But how do we understand Implicit bias Heres a window on implicit bias in the court system. IRE https RT dglaun Still not convinced IRE isnt a plot by Big Corruption to give the nations investigative press corps heatstroke. RT JCMcCracken Another spot at Need wellsourced retail reporter to cover upheaval. RT JCMcCracken And another new job Come amp break news on the worlds banks. When with confidential sources remember to turn off location services on your phone ire RT egabler GUYS REMEMBER THIS This is a privilege. Not everyone gets to do this says fieldsrobin IRE RT mattdpearce artistic rendering of me enjoying myself at IRE in Phoenix this week VigneshR CNBC Messaged you VigneshR CNBC Youre at ire Lets get coffee kaykelly solerahealth brendagschmidt Im at a journalism conference but will keep you posted if theres a good gap. Maybe lunch crauber Yes i think so. Although tech is unique in the inability to handle fair critique So great to speak about how to break stories on the tech beat at ire a lot of the qs were about managing PRveil of secrecy RT StanfordJourn Alumna chrissyfarr MA of CNBC spoke about her work breaking healthtech news in Silicon Valley at IRE. https RT scottzamost Listening to chrissyfarr at Investigating The Tech Industry panel at IRE Phoenix RT mbaram At IRE Check out the panel Im moderating at am today on Silicon Valley w chrissyfarr Yunan Zhang RT AndrewYNg Lesson from Susan Fowlers impact on Uber Dont underestimate the power of your voice even if youre just one person. Spea It actually feels like walking through a dry sauna in Phoenix right now ire RT jayparkinson chrissyfarr Its real hard to be a profitable digital health company. Trust me. scientre Yep imkialikethecar At VB Having a lot of simultaneous conversations about Omada. Industry thinks its services component makes scaling hard which VC model requires The cuts were across all departments. Companies says it was necessary to meet profitability goals. Alright heres the scoop Omada Health laid off about people today just shy of of its workforce. Dropping soon RT MattRosoff So chrissyfarr has been stuck at the airport all day and STILL found time to come up with a scoop... RT CNBCtech Jeff Bezos has advice for the news business Ask people to pay. They will pay. Based on all the in talks rumors Im hearing predicting a bunch of digital health MampA in the next year from big tech Turns out a lot of people just stopped using Uber Cflexman Me too BradMcCarty Youre so much better than me Fave this tweet if you feel a lot of guilt for still using Uber SarahNEmerson IRE the best RT juliacarriew Im still looking to talk to moms and pregnant women working in tech. Can talk anonymously. DM or julia.wongtheguardian. All the reshuffling left employees at this meditation startup feeling stressed out LOL by caleweissman zachtratar i mean its the same thing as asking why a computer wouldnt replace artists... zachtratar Have you ever spent time with an oncologist Last time I questioned Vinod about this he called me naive. UM no. Off tomorrow for Investigative Reporters and Editors conference.... Yay But Phoenix in June IRE My latest If you cant compete hire bioinformaticists for a few years before they get a offer from AmazonGoogle brianreid Well with the pubs that cover embargoed news. PR strategies that work in tech do not work in biotech. RT InfinoMe chrissyfarr beddit I love beddit for the rich features but wish the sensor wasnt fragile. Theyll iron out the kinks even InfinoMe beddit not yet but I do have a ResMed to try Damn so proud of CNBCtech team which has more than doubled since I joined. seehafer Yeh still needs to be v. accurate tho to avoid flooding doctors offices seehafer Yep. They could simply suggest that a user sees a doctor. I say this a lot but medical applications like these will turn devices from a nice to have to a must have RT bethlinas fitbit is building tools to help diagnose amp monitor sleep apnea entering medical device territory Will it need USFDA ap My latest is on a Fitbit RampD effort to use optical tech to detect sleep apnea many ppl dont realize they have it jackclarkSF Smerity EricNewcomer I get the medical perspective on AI RT CNBC Apple is working with this small startup to change how we track our health RT atbwebb chrissyfarr Right but it means that if you trade in your iPhone for an Android then you cant transfer all your data. I.e. atbwebb Yes pretty sure its why we now have the health records section in Health app. atbwebb Yes I broke that news at Fast Company atbwebb Yes v. likely. Although still a vast improvement from not being able to access most of your data at all. atbwebb As in Apple is a closed system See story from last week has more details. I rec Next column will look at why PHRs have been so challenging for tech companies. So glad to have an excuse AAPL this past week to return to the topic of healthtech interoperability challenges amp its impact on patients RT albertfong A patient data hub on your phone Apples strategy is to make the patient the center of their own care sandeepburug thx RT CarolineYLChen AGN brentlsaunders advocating biopharma industry setting better standards for itself not blaming PBMs and insurers. RT chrissyfarr jeffpbyers I dont think MDs losing jobs is the story when it comes to AI. If anything its an alert system that drives BrianEastwood Thank you Appreciate that. BrianEastwood I have a great beat JohnWilson Built on it RT MattRosoff Scoop from chrissyfarr A small startup called Health Gorilla could be key to Apples health plans It is working with a company called Health Gorilla which specializes in aggregating diagnostic data sources Latest Applehealth SCOOPThis tiny startup could be key to Apples personal health record ambitionsAAPL jeffpbyers lol im okay with that somehow ethanbechtel realHayman Is that true I can imagine a lot of docs wanting to focus their energies on the more complex cases. jeffpbyers I dont think MDs losing jobs is the story when it comes to AI. If anything its an alert system that libbybrittain Definitely a lower friction experience RT aweissman chrissyfarr But what if the price for SMS was video in person ..... DrDave Had a fun catch up with your colleague vicgundotra today RT DrDave vijayramnath chrissyfarr Many people dont think about their health until they lose it. sadtruth RT billcox chrissyfarr Yep seeing this shift happening already. Big opportunities to drive better adherence to care plans. RobertGeertsen I tweeted to app developers that follow me. Better q. for them. RT RobertGeertsen chrissyfarr My father has an Alexa amp is amazed by the speed amp amt it knows. He also has a pacemaker. Could Alexa pro Willing to bet that a lot of the fitness wearables of today will morph into medical devices. Main usecase Remote monitoring. MartinBell rborkows Yes might be easier if youre visually impaired or have physical limitations. If its for a routine medical problem would you rather communicate with a doctor via RT MartinBell chrissyfarr Next Alexa has a screen Morning Alexa Im feeling unwell. Dial me a doctor. Dialling you a doctor. Up Thought experiment guys. Is there a future for Amazon in telemedicine It has Chime. telemed health RT CNBCtech Seriously Its just that good CNBCs Todd Haselton says Is anyone in a more awkward spot right now than Josh Kushner Health devs to Amazon Alexa BE HIPAA COMPLIANT so we can do important stuff medicfurby chiefmaven rsgold SocialBttrfly meganlewis thx RT EmilyFPeters PHR shark infested waters for tech companies. Google amp Microsoft already chomped. Is Apple next RT kenli chrissyfarr unless you tell them to reveal everything. but only to you. kenli Thats my typical advice yes. RT grantheimer Hospitals integrating Amazon Alexa technology from chrissyfarr at CNBC If as many people gave me solid reporting tips as asked me for PR advice... notmyjob RT nickdawson We looked early and tested several use cases with patients and MDs. Our innovation team loves them end users Not so much Hospitals are looking for the next great Alexa app my latest column column health tech RT dkberman What will Amazon look like when it is broken apart in CommerceWeb ServicesMediaLogistics ServicesAI GenomicsWha strngwys Lol love it My weekly column has a name Health Tech Matters Just wrote the next one on hospitals tinkering with Amazon Alexa apps. RT cwhogg chrissyfarr Not sure about GoodRx because its not logistics. No product distribution just coupons. Not their core. But PillP dariustahir Lol if Apple werent in health care Id come up empty. entroporium What do you mean by health procurement dariustahir Brb SamBleiberg MattRosoff drug delivery or grocery delivery If I wrote something that wasnt about Amazon or Trump would anyone read it RT MattRosoff Interesting find from chrissyfarr here Whole Foods chair also on board of big generic drug maker Teva I totally agree and pure speculation that it would make a lot of sense for Amazon to buy a company like GoodRx naveen Thanks Naveen RT CNBC If Amazon wants to sell prescription drugs Whole Foods could provide the real estate RT levynews Going to Whole Foods for some hot cakes and coming back for some hot takes. DrugChannels CNBC amazon WholeFoods Would be very interesting if Amazon did buy a GoodRx... RT DrugChannels My . to CNBC on pharmacy drug angle of amazon AMZN WholeFoods WFM deal chrissyfarr The buyup of Whole Foods makes entry into pharmacy easier for AmazonChallenges Biz model competition brand ANALYSIS If Amazon wants to sell prescription drugs Whole Foods could provide the real estate RT Cascadia chrissyfarr My take is that amazon didnt just buy a grocery store wholefoods they bought a new distribution channel and Analysis about whether Amazon will use Whole Foods buyup to get into pharmacy is about to drop... RT graemedmoffat chrissyfarr They just quietly snuck up on the lab equipment amp consumables industry and did the same thing... TomCassels Kiosks for acute meds online sales pure speculation sarahbuhr Theyve got new corporate overlords. And makes perfect sense for Amazon. sarahbuhr Whole Foods has no pharmacies... Ill bet not for long. I can imagine a lot of radiologists sitting around a table at Google Brain right now RT bethlinas I hope to improve healthliteracy but Im also a scientist so I get both sides of debate amp we should keep talking RT MalinkaWal This would massively accelerate many existing health tech companies and unleash an entirely new wave built on top of Apple stevenaquino Yes Im actually working on a story that has bigger relevance to accessibility. Voice apps for health care e.g. Alexa. RT amalec Im going to riff off chrissyfarr piece to talk about the interplay of policy technology amp standards. Its a long journey. RT aawayne Whoa sarahkliff is pissed. Our latest Apple health scoop updated with video. Talking to SquawkAlley this morning but cut off by Trump A super interesting health hire for Amazon AWS RT mat job sirenWere hiring a health editor. RT jayparkinson chrissyfarr levynews I feel like Ive died and gone to heaven says lawyer in reaction to FDAs plan to oversee digital health modrnhealthcr amazon Great on that front Ill be trying to compete with you guys Note that Verily has also hired developers who are super smart on the FHIR API protocol RT johnbrownstein So proud to see this finally launched RT stephenkraus maybe it wont happen. maybe it is just like yrs ago. but I am betting this time is different chrissyfarr johnc RT justinlmitchell Having worked at PHR Dossia for yrs I hope Apple solves the problem but seriously doubt it. Bad incentives preven This is another area Im watching re Amazon in health RT CNBC Apple should buy Athenahealth to expand in health care Citigroup RT megtirrell Pegged to chrissyfarr story Citi suggests AAPL may consider acquiring ATHN Yep might not be enough to save Oscar if Obamacare is gutted. RT sangerkatz Another new Obamacare expansion Oscar is entering Ohio. ataussig Thanks Alex I have this theory that a lot of the same people who are into bodyhacking are also into cryptocurrencies. Profile...levynews RT Techmeme Sources Apple talking to Argonaut Project Carin Alliance to build health info into iPhone RT ediggs Google Is Ramping Up Pharma Activity joshuamcclure benadida Yep I broke that benadida All news to me and I follow this stuff closely benadida Really Ive suspected it but never seen it reported. Plus the acquisition involvement w groups like Argonaut etc RT stephenkraus This AAPL news plus Amazon entering pharmacy space may be the tipping point for the digital health industry chrissyfarr RT DShaywitz Everyone from JonathanBush to FarzadMD to EricTopol have endorsed this in principle gr if Apple can pull off https MichaelDocktor It would be great for patientsconsumers. MichaelDocktor I dont report things that arent but whats unclear is whether itll succeed where others have struggled FarzadMD Quote of the year DShaywitz Lol thx RT KirkJNahrawork chrissyfarr Googles approach wasnt well thought out. Microsoft doesnt have enough direct connection. Thats where A RT rborkows Ripe for building a valueadd consumer experience around. And they dont even need to worry about monetizing it directly. htt jeffpbyers For sure related to the CDAs I can now get on Health app. But this is bigger than that. Microsoft and Google have both struggled with patient health records. But timing could be right for Apple. And its talking to right folks. As FarzadMD puts it If Apple is serious about being a medical record bank its a big fucking deal SCOOP Apple has a team working on bringing your clinical info to the iPhone so patients control their health data Next healthtech scoop on its way... adamdole BostonChildrens GajenSunthara Great idea thx GajenSunthara lets chat. Looking to chat with health developers who are making Alexa apps ideally for hospital settings. DM me. Lets stop worshipping risktaking visionary founders couldnt agree more with MattRosoff ShelliMartineau thx. Whats your best contact ShelliMartineau Can you say moregot a screenshot RT ClaraJeffery Amid a day and a time when we urgently need more journalists its especially hard to see the layoffs at HuffPo Vocati sarahbuhr He said the same thing to me a month ago. Doesnt mean hes not doing it. Just not with this company. Hey talented reporters were still hiring at CNBC. Beats are flexible but cybersecurity is at the top of the list. Talk to MattRosoff thinkmariya gsvpioneer LOL halletecco ashlee altopharmacy PillPack zipdrug blinkhealth lemonaidhealth capsulecares GoodRx nurxapp RT halletecco This might help you compare the slew of new Rx startups tackling the massive drugstore market I had confirm nor deny used on me a few times today Reminded me of this podcastAnd look out for a scoop tomo kylekahveci thx not yet VtgPoint Watch this space .webgeek trying to reach you. Best email Sometimes I get tips about big tech cos in health that I think are totally nuts. And then look into it... And its not so crazy... RT lsynett Great read. Quickly the censorship became the focus of the hashtagnot the science. ADA hcsm RT jeroentas Great TED Talk from chrissyfarr. When patients are empowered by data amazing things can happen RT ProofPilot chrissyfarr Josh Kushner at ThriveCapital turned us down in . Did it such an elegant amp classy way despite connection ProofPilot ThriveCapital Thats our new hashtag ProofPilot ThriveCapital vcdidntfeelit RT evolvability chrissyfarr Sure first startup Arpeggi Inc pitched to Founders Fund had some great discussions but they ultimately w evolvability Whats hashtag vcdidntfeelit evolvability If u start maybe we create a movement evolvability Would u on twitter unclenate Reporter. On twitter. Not in a private conversation Cc eperlste davegirouard Lol RT davegirouard chrissyfarr yes but we prefer to wait until its clear that it was a regrettable decision on the VCs part Founders would you ever publicly admit that you got rejected by an investor Or is that totally taboo chizhao Its fine to wait a little bit RT nytimes If the Republican health plan becomes law changing your job could get much more difficult RT hannu chrissyfarr Im surprised they dont want to be paid in Bitcoin for their genome sequence data. Talking to a founder who wants to use his bitcoin profits to get his genome sequenced very Silicon Valley And dont add context These Medium posts are fine but often v vague When startups fail super encourage founders to talk to someone in media about it. Community benefits from lessons learned. RT jayparkinson A VCfunded primary care startup chooses to cut corners to satisfy growthinvestor demands. The best kind of founder birsic daveheal LOL. christina.farrnbcuni.com daveheal birsic Hah we should chat then. Were always looking for subjects to explain their body hacking ways on cam is Soylent still a thing RT calif Congrats to Apple and Sumbul. Need to integrate SV technology and health systemsthis is a good move. dylanized lol I dont understand this stuff at all. RT halletecco Women in healthcare please take a moment to complete this survey RockHealth disruptivewomen HealthITChicks RT jamesproud Goodbye Hello. RT Techmeme Source sleep monitoring startup Hello has laid off most of its employees is seeking buyer RT stilenius chrissyfarr they would create an entirely new full stack careinsuranceprovider solution given regulatory environment its RT atulbutte Interesting GenomicsEngland offering petabytes of data to entice new bioinformatics hires RT levynews Taking on Trump Silicon Valley investor returns home to run for Congress RT RockHealth GOOG has consistently ranked as the tech giant most trusted with health data despite a number of folded efforts. https Any surprises statnews investigated the most Googled disease beherenow RRaymann Dont think anyone wants their health care disrupted. RT jeanlucneptune chrissyfarr Closest thing we have in HC is Alfred Mann who most people have probably never heard of and who died last RT ArthurAllen chrissyfarr Selfdriving scalpels selfapproved medical claims solarpowered EHRs RT nikillinit chrissyfarr itll be whoever actually creates noninvasive biomarker monitoring andor the tricorder RT beherenow RRaymann chrissyfarr Treating patients as people. And not just some amalgam of disease puzzles and opportunities to mak beherenow RRaymann YESSSSS DrSepah elonmusk Really But he hasnt done anything yet. Thoughtful q. posed by an investor do we have an Elon Musk in health care amp if not what would they create If youre into history of medicine tune into this on the th CE opiod addiction BackStory is my fave podcast Our story on plibins experience with intermittent fasting updated w a fab video from Jeniecep RT CNBC Rich doctors are beginning to offer their time and money to health tech startups New column Doctors with cash to spare are getting trained to invest in medicaltech startups eramirez Ill get on it Also if you guys have ideas for future columns keep me posted. Just wrote my next column. Its about doctors being angel investors for medtech startups. Posting this we RT alexismadrigal The exciting things in tech right now are hard things AI robotics genomics. Plenty to criticize but the Uberfordo RT RockHealth Apple has hired Sumbul Desai. Scoop from chrissyfarr More details here on CRVs new bioengineering fund w Dylan Morris amp georgezachary RT murraypolitics And now for an address by our interim prime minister hungparliament FF to the growing team CNBCtech SF on digital jordannovet johnshinal Jeniecep levynews lorakolodny MattRosoff amp still hiring RT AnasET MaxiMacki profgeraintrees Apple chrissyfarr Were seeing a real time brain drain from academic to commercial sector that SV execs whose personal experiences led to a passion for healthGeorge Zachary Phil Libin An interesting new approach to diagnosingtreating sleep apnea telemed free coaching digital maskfitting RT GdnPolitics not sure how to explain this to our nonBritish followers DShaywitz Yes I give credit where credit is deserved. And always enjoy seeing women kill it in biomed. DShaywitz I disagree. As exec director of the center for digital medicine researcher MD professor amp frmr strate Techmeme Yet more evidence here that Apple is taking health care very seriously RT jyarow Another killer chrissyfarr scoop Apple hires Sumbul Desai Stanford digital health executive director Here it isSCOOP Apples health team quietly poached a rising star in digital health from Stanford tip Techmeme Got a healthtech scoop coming... stephenkraus halletecco What do you think Can you train doctors to be good investors Oh wow. graemedmoffat VahabzadehMD Hah thx. Im a history major. Gotta turn to smart folks in community for help. Meanwhile at home Interesting Amazons Health Care Building Blocks by healthythinker builds off CNBCs reporting halletecco thx thatd be great. Ill also DM you for this story as you might have some thoughts PsycleDoc hah no although that is its own form of investment DM me if youre a doctor who angel invests erikrtn FundRx BradMcCarty Youre totally helping me with my next column erikrtn FundRx erikrtn BradMcCarty Got it. Who are the LPs BradMcCarty On the flip side would docs invest in tech that would undercut their own salaries by empowering a patientnurse etc. aweissman BradMcCarty Im actually fascinated by this. lorakolodny we should investigate. BradMcCarty But an interesting idea nonetheless. Many doctors have to spare amp know firsthand that so much healthtech sucks. .BradMcCarty made me aware of a site that connects MD angels with med startups Note not all docs r gd investors atulbutte Maybe this is a good time for me to call amp catch up RT grantabt chrissyfarr The longterm promise is for all of those. Unfortunately the current validity for any of those uses is limited. amalec Urr future typesfast What is the most compelling health usecase for a wearable Looking to chat with someone who has been diagnosed with sleep apnea or suspects that they have it. DM me plz. RT CNBC Silicon Valley investor Phil Libin has lost almost pounds by fasting for days at a time ethanjweiss matthewherper Yes far too little data from human studies matthewherper Hah yes matthewherper Im not saying that. Lots of skepticism in the piece. daveheal It doesnt have to. It was just his approach Our feature on how Silicon Valley exec Phil Libin dropped lbs. His strategyIntermittent fasting. RT jordannovet Scoop Facebook is planning to take WhatsApp off IBM SoftLayer servers and move the app to its own data centers. RT CNBCtech The creator of a eskin wants to make clothing filled with chips to track your health all day DavidCookeMD DM Its open. Need a doctor who can give me a frank assessment of a bodyhacking trend. DM me directly. No PR please. Deadline hour. jfgm Are folks going crazy If something actually works theres something to learn from it. Fun interview with plibin for our next bodyhacking feature. W Jeniecep stay tuned RT CalebMelby How Trump Shifted KidsCancer Charity Money Into His Business jawdropping findings from total ace DanAlexander https A real example of webbased tools helping patients live longer. You dont see this everyday. ht JonathanHirsch I wonder if this is why we wear eye makeup. Makes it easier for others to read expressionemotion through the eyes RT zakijam Collab btwn sbaroncohen amp andMe Cognitive empathy heritable explained by SNPs overall higher in women RT jayparkinson The magnitude of road blocks in healthcare for doing anything but the status quo is mind blowing. So many levels. RT JCMcCracken Join growing newsroom. Politics editor. Tech reporter. Im willing to give this a try but SO NOT convinced by a chatbot for therapy Facebooks big pharma summit is today. Our story about the push from last week PsycleDoc WWDC RT EmilyFPeters Healthcare dominated the kpcb Internet Trends Report. Silicon Valley is bullish on digitalhealth RT MWFriedberg chrissyfarr There are data on this question. Short summary Yay Welcome Lora our most recent addition to team CNBCtech DrAalami Think so too Ps great seeing u at stanford amp coffee soon geoffclapp A thoughtful person posed it to me over the weekend hlshelton teammovewith No idea. What are you finding Can we have a good patient experience if we dont deliver a good provider experience RT CNBC This guy traveled more than miles to Apples WWDC to find a cofounder for his company As they say in America mad props wwdc And no line for the womens bathroom wwdc MICHELLE OBAMA joining tomorrow. Wonder if shell be talking about Lets Move. RT JordanMichaels Good piece chrissyfarr CNBC. healthcare tech isnt onesize fits all. No shortcuts. No one uses the health system Will this speaker take me to Mars WWDC heatherkelly I was just thinking that... RT mcwm There are people here who havent stood up in many hours RT DaveLeeBBC Apple positioning this as a smart speaker not an assistant. Let down WWDC stephaniemlee Interesting q. Would you tune into a hour keynote for any other company RT stephaniemlee hmm could doctor notetaking benefit from using the Apple Pencil on the iPad wwdc RT cwarzel We have entered the rd hour of the apple keynote Aristotle bballinger AliveCor Health devs are already building those interchangeable bands. karthikmittwit Sure Is it weird that people clap so much at wwdc It feels particularly strange to me when press does it. iPad up next. Had a genuinely cool visit to CedarsSinai last year to see how patients are using them bballinger A company that is way ahead on this front AliveCor RT asilverstein Good summary of key AAPL news at WWDC by chrissyfarr mhealth healthtech bballinger wwdc wwdc RT OphirGottlieb AAPL Huge. Apple Watch is about to get a lot more useful with interchangeable bands that track health symptoms ht bballinger Favorite Phil Schiller tidbit hes a scientistbytraining biologist and sits on Illuminas board aapl wwdc biotech rachelmetz Do any dads go to the barber and ask for the Federighi Gotta say and I know its been said before Craig Federighi has charisma. He seems comfortable up there. wwdc Its a health story stay tuned jameyedwards CancerGeek RasuShrestha ebukstel CNBC nickisnpdx mikebiselli JoeBabaian MandiBPro dchou The technical wizardry required to file a story from wwdc wifidown RT atbwebb Dexcom shares spike on WWDC that Apple Watch will be able to pull data from their glucose monitors. RT panzer Native core bluetooth support comes to Apple Watch Ranging and LE syncing with hardware like glucose sensors and other real ti RT BrianEastwood Bet Garmin Polar and others who have offered HIIT for more than year are really scared. Knocking Apple here not ch If youre super into working out and you dont have an Apple Watch will todays updates change your mind wwdc Apple Watch is tapping into popular workout trends High intensity interval training is next wwdc wwdc Activity notifications are more personalized with new watch OS. Also monthly challenges. Good next step wwdc Were changing the world Now for our first announcement TV. Hmm... wwdc RT LanceUlanoff One Apple Developer is and the other is . What are you doing with your life WWDC RT nxthompson I think change the world is used synonymously with make money in Silicon Valley. wwdc RT ryaninnovates chrissyfarr I want to hear theyre building on top of progress like this as it relates to HealthKit integration w F RT HealthEugene andMe is making its first foray into athome research and its going to hurt via techreview CaitlinKellyNYC Guilty as charged Modern humans Almost everyone on phonestablets taking selfies collaborating. Not a ton of human touch tho. MattRosoff They just offered up a power section. I may have run... RT eramirez The latest from chrissyfarr and this earlier piece on Medicaid innovation just shows that not muc Not bad swag this year wwdc What do you guys want to see from Apple today on the health front WWDC Headed down to WWDC with my CNBCtech colleague jordannovet follow for updates AAPL DrShlain articlesiwishihadwritten jakemcclure nikillinit Its not like pivoting from consumer to enterprise or making a car cheaper over time .DrShlain treats the wealthiest in tech but not with hightech tools. The key is the human relationship. nikillinit jakemcclure My argument is that it rarely happens that way in HC msquinn inafried CloverHealth I have thx RT kyleserikawa Very nice and pt that has to get more attention if we dont want to drive more inequity. trickledownhealthcare may not w graemedmoffat Thank you RT RobertCGreen Is HealthTech overblown See chrissyfarr CNBCtech All true and medical culturereimburseme RT CNBCtech Silicon Valley is too focused on taking the easy path in health care My latest column Silicon Valley is too focused on taking the easy path in health care health tech RT HealApp What if the patient knows best Great insights on patientexperience from chrissyfarrs TedTalk RT WSJ Some Americans have a genetic disorder that makes them irrepressibly friendly trusting and loving. Exciting Amazon Alexa health diabetes health tech vkhosla dpatil He has yes. Care at Hand. A startup that was acquired in . Funny how the most interesting people are so often the most shy about being profiled sayyes vgul although that would probably be beneficial for all of us vgul Or sure Ill order you some lean protein and a salad. RT vgul chrissyfarr Alexa should I eat another doughnut Alexa Sure I will order you another pack of insulin This is really coolAmazon AWS wants health devs to build voice apps on Alexa for those with diabetes gt amzn In the changing health insurance landscape investors still dig MA. MedicareAdvantage VC Still getting regular emails from folks in SV wanting to meet with AndreyOstrovsky RT EmmanuelMacron Climate change is already changing our daily lives. Its not the future we want for our world. RT CNBC JUST IN Tesla amp SpaceX CEO Elon Musk exits Trumps advisory councils due to withdrawal from Paris climate deal stephenjdowns Thx for sharing RT stephenjdowns Really liked this esp notion of the future of medicine is a partnership facilitated by access to information amp to RT stephaniemlee its over An amazing opp guys journalism jobs The health bits from Mary Meekers trend report. Speaks to how Silicon Valley thinks about the space. nikillinit berthacoombs Lol. Im also in that awkward window. RT jackpenner Hospitals and doctors offices starting to offer patients digital access to their own information ePatientDave RT halletecco One of the biggest and most tragic failures of our medical system ever. RT berthacoombs Life imitates show Silicon Valley Startup offers people over teenage blood transfusion for K via Chrissyfarr http annielamont Christina.farrnbcuni.com knotiookin OmanReagan CNBCtech nope StevenStrauss Check out the story addresses that. Taxpayers were supposed to benefit from medical data exchange But companies flouted rules bc walled gardens RT CNBC This startup is offering blood transfusions from teens to people who want to fight aging CaitlinKellyNYC based on reality THIS IS REAL. People are paying for it. Techies often begin talks on their shift to health like thisEveryone thought I was crazy.Should SV tackle hard problemscodecon libbybrittain Yes they should. Lets get coffee sometime annielamont Yes Cant believe we havent yet. Whats your best ethanjweiss Dont watch. Too close to home. ChadRethorst Took more than a decade tho right atbwebb SiliconHBO They say they dont steal blood which is a relief Old mice can become younger if theyre conjoined with young ones.So should older humans get infusions of young blo Hearing from Neurotrack a digital therapeutic for Alzheimers. Reimbursement a ways off. codecon. Great hearing about lifestyle interventions for disease prevention backed by clinical studies. But big q is always who will pay codecon JohnNosta Although to be clear it was just slides. The health section was last and they didnt have time to get to it. JohnNosta I think she speaks well for how Silicon Valley thinks health care works. phylogenomics jackclarkSF lol RT Naseeoh Wow. Clinton on DNC I inherited nothing from the party. It was bankrupt... its data was mediocre to poor non existent wro RT JohnNosta Meekers future of the Internet how Silicon Valley thinks it can take over health care I sense a shift east https RT DrSidMukherjee Tried to be patient but tld United .. if I ran my chemo suite like this there would be a death every day SYSTEMS MATT jackclarkSF phylogenomics Unless you dont care about publicface of your company. JesseHamlin It shouldnt. But some PR firms will insist on staffing or theyll cancel the meeting. Those would be. jackclarkSF phylogenomics Honestly I duno. Countless founders tell me they dont have the bandwidth. I alway phylogenomics Happy to share any tipsinsights on that. The main one My DM is open. My email is open. Dont hire someone to get in touch. On another note this is my most popular LinkedIn post ever. Speaks to lack of understanding confusion on how to r My yo dad just made his firstever call to a congressperson specifically about this RT bizcarson Nailed it. akalali StephHabif Rarely But regular teethbrushing amp gum helps Im told. Hillary Clinton stresses that she isnt going anywhere. I dont want it to happen to anyone else.codecon RT GregBensinger I take responsibility for every decision I made but thats not why I lost says Hillary Clinton pointing at Russia RT FarzadMD Let me be plainspoken.eClinicalWorks is not the only EHR vendor who flouted certification misled customersOther vendors Healthtech is a big Internet trend this year even tho Meeker didnt have time to get to it on stage codecon vijaygoel If you can afford it RT emilylmullin andMe is launching a pain studyand for the first time asking participants to carry out an experiment at home. Digging all of jonfortts questions about codecon keep em coming nxpatel yes toates See my next tweet on caveats. I have many. Health care cuts across lots of different areas in Alphabet Machine learning in life sciences is extraordinary Ruth Porat codecon Want to add lots of caveats for Meekers report E.g. More blood tests for tech but also regulatory grey area amp of questionable value Mary Meeker health section Rise of wearables Rise of health data usergenerated amp clinical New sensors Big tech is wellpoised GAH. Mary Meeker didnt have time to go through health section. Im digging in now amp will share highlights. Follow for updates. codecon levynews Not in UK tho see NHSDeepMind RT levynews consumers evidently trust Google with their health data via Mary Meeker codecon heatherkelly I would. To be in ketosis often involves a lot of monitoringtracking. But brings up bigger q What i A whole lot of bodyhacking this year at codecon Fasting amp ketogenic diets definitely all the rage among tech execs. antonioregalado Definitely. Hearing u dont have cancer could also give false sense of security. Similar to negative BRCA results. RT antonioregalado Screening general population for cancer could generate many false positives. That is very bad. Fear panic expense. RT matthewherper Thread on Grail news RT janemetcalfe Startup Genome Medical is training experts to help you figure out what your genetic tests mean RT DrSepah chrissyfarr VCs have done this for a long time less publicly. They refer foundersexecs to me for both therapy and executive And yet Ive never seen a teen health startup. yoda Yep Already having these convos at codecon I got sick or familymembers got sick. No longer care about tech apps. Whats new in health lisabari See later responses. Not new. karaswisher It is used in so many contexts that it no longer means anything .karaswisher lets talk responsibility not all tech platforms are wholly benign. Id go further Banish the term platform Codecon ExGoogler tristanharris says tech is manipulating minds Its about getting attention not helping us communicate.codecon pemullen yoda Glad to know that not everyone can be brooke Yep yoda Im sure he still has PR. Everyone and their mother does. Is it just me or does Steve Ballmer seem not entirely prepped Like a real person. codecon deanbaquet To be clear these are people across the various teams including political. And its not their sole coverage area. jeremybowers Yep reporters cover as a reporter myself doesnt imply to me that its a full beat. So many mixed feelings about this gt NYT reporters cover Trumps twitter feed says deanbaquet Codecon truthsquad Truth. Competition is the least examined motivation in American journalism says NYTs deanbaquet codecon az expands its bio investing team RT JeffreyLowMD Excited to join Andreessen Horowitz as a partner focused on the intersection of bio healthcare and tech az vijaypa RT matthewherper Former Insurance CEO Mario Molina Republicans Raised Your Health Care Premiums Not Obamacare RT megtirrell Theranos PR confirms filing this AM relates to previous shareholder recapitalization announcement RSFlinn CNBC Thanks Ryan RT BrennanSpiegel Theres too much talk that AI is cure for healthcare. Im a technophile but were not even close. CNBC explores htt erikrtn HelloKip erinfrey beau dranjasf tiami Its selfreported data acc to my transcript RT LindsayDeneault At a restaurant we know there is much more to an experience than being fed. TEDx chrissyf Team CNBC is headed to code w MattRosoff johnshinal MsABalakrishnan RT CNBC Some venture capitalists are prioritizing mental health and are willing to pay for therapy These venture capitalists see mental health as a priority so theyre paying for founders therapy sessions RT lemonaidhealth Illuminating podcast jyarow fmanjoo amp chrissyfarr discuss how Silicon Valley is trying to disrupt healthcare. htt not a new raise danprimack Thx RT danprimack chrissyfarr not exactly. related to the settlement w shareholders. Another huge round for Theranos. RT gblander Apple CEO Tim Cook testdrove a device that tracks his blood sugar hinting at Apples interest by ethanjweiss RahulRajkumar You are always so articulate RT dafyddloughran Thx chrissyfarr for such eloquence on shared decision making amp patient access to records TEDx RT AndrewYNg Inspiring talk on how we can make the healthcare system better by chrissyfarr RT RasuShrestha Health amp health care is too human a notion for AI alone to cure it.chrissyfarr pens imp piece on hype vs hopehttps RT JohnNosta AI in medicine doctors are skeptical. AI And I wonder why digitalhealth chrissyfarr Companies say that AI will cure health care. What do doctors think RT VahabzadehMD Hype dominates the reporting of AI in medicine good article by chrissyfarr about why Drs are skeptical RT HealthEugene Facebook is making a push sell ads drugmakers by chrissyfarr was hoping sthing more exci RT ashokaraj chrissyfarr Theres a flag on the EMR not always up to date. Cancer registries require you reach out and find out RT danfell chrissyfarr Not a dumb question at all. Even the pts primary care MD rarely gets notified when hisher pt is admitted let al Dumb q. but is there an electronic way for docs to find out if patients have passed away Through EMR perhaps RT sarahfrier FB has tried harder to get regulated industries like finance pharma to buy ads. chrissyfarr on health ad push https NatalieGrover You probably cant but if you can Keep me posted FB will need to tread super carefully in pharma.Big q Will it refuse to market certain drugs like viagra Strong opp. there to offend. New details here on Facebooks efforts to court pharma health tech RT MattRosoff That Facebook Health summit on June in New York chrissyfarr figured out what it is tip Techme I talk about health tech amp Silicon Valley on the amazing Jay amp Farhad show. Tune in RT fqure Good recap of healthcare incentives and SV with chrissyfarr bonus some slight cursing It relates to a big tech company so keep an eye out pre Memorial Day I gotta healthtech scoop coming this afternoon. Right in the middle of dead zone Live shot of me today at the SF office. karaswisher akalali Ditto Im a fan. Ill dm you. RT BDOhealth Amazon for genetics This startup is using video to address shortage of genetics testing counselors The last story I wrote for FastCompany is up its a review of a personalized diet startup called Habit. RT serenasaitto On Demand Food Service Sprig To Shut Down via theinformation Anyone in healthtechbiotech at Code next week RT sheridankate Two years in what has Apple ResearchKit accomplished via me on statnews RT JasonUkman gtglennbeck calls statnews a leftist Silicon Valley tech site. Were nonpartisan Bostonbased cover science. https Our update on Google Brains machine learning projectspartnerships an interview with Katherine Chou. Get on it Google Fit. sciencethedata omadahealth Okay Sounds good RT EmilyFPeters sleeptech is hot crunchbasenews reports sleepfocused startups raised close to M last year. digitalhealth https EmilyFPeters crunchbasenews cc Jeniecep RT gankit chrissyfarr Lack of new pathologists too JeffStanleyMD Lol JosephFuisz Yes RT MrTwamley the future of med isnt just patient driven its not just evidence based its also distributed. Its happening everywher My TEDx talk is up Its about how how technology is shifting us from paternalism to patientdoctor partnerships. RT ProofPilot chrissyfarr Humans are social beings. Real human interaction improves health. Technology that improves human interaction i CarolineYLChen DanBudwick Great story. Shocking that k customers a B valuation. Must read on the lost art of media relations by DanBudwick be a source dont hire someon SavageMeHealth yup ManeeshJuneja hope is useful hype is not ManeeshJuneja THIS Thank you ManeeshJuneja a digital health futurist for this important reminder of the value of human connection.  OphirGottlieb thx As far as I can tell zero doctors have been quoted in this story. Its all companies. Ill be talking healthtech Apple on the Jay amp Farhad show. Listen tomorrow thx for the invite jyarow fmanjoo Thx for the shout out waltmossberg final column a must read guys A lot of feedback For me it was a sanity check on hype vs. reality. But if anyone has dataevidence to show me... ethanjweiss Shoot ethanjweiss My headline AI could be useful sometimes but still mostly in early research phase. No one would read. RT vijaypande BioCS experts we need your help chrissyfarr RT danielkraft . EricTopol on what we get for .T gt False s in screenings Inpatients harmed M Dx errors drug unresp Inspired by med students at BigDataMed. Tech savvy yes but also patientfocused e.g. Wont say my patients bc of paternalism EricTopol Ashwinning nikillinit Its a great one from malayhgandhi RT Ashwinning chrissyfarr If you havent read this this is the best article on health tech Ive ever read n Medicine has shades of grey. Hence its difficult to agree on ground truth in order to train AI to diagnose all conditions BigDataMed Theme of BigDataMed Doctors will be augmented not replaced. But med students behind me say they are wary of picking radiologypathology. dpatil qhardy Im in and chief medical officer Jessica Mega a cardiologist at Verily says one of the most rewarding parts of the job is working with experience designers BigDataMed stephaniemlee Glad you got that. I heard seven thousand RT stephaniemlee Verilys chief medical officer on the recently launched Baseline Study several thousand people joined within first Alphabet Verilys chief med officer For anyone who is a physician there is always a role for the work we do. BigDataMed nikillinit qhardy Yep thats why I said its a tool rittenhouse All these things will be driven by payment reform not AI. In health if you build it they probably wont come. RT NoomanHaque chrissyfarr Future of healthcare is looking after old people. If AI is the future of that show me how it impacts on g Ill preface my previous tweet to note that this is where I am today follow for updates from BigDataMed natashaloder DrShlain In theory. But not seeing evidence for AI as a diagnostic tool to replace humans. I know DrShlain thinks about this RT RSFlinn Great thread about the future of healthcare and what role will tech play vs human relationships RT StephHabif chrissyfarr Yes chrissyfarr RT CNBCtech Fitness trackers are terrible at counting calories says Stanford study JoeBabaian Maybe. Id love to see some evidence to back that up tho. qhardy Tech is a tool that can be used for good or evil. These days its for billing not relationships. AI isnt RuthReader AshPrashar There are some decent trackers out there for chronically Ill e.g. alivecor but at best it qhardy Will watch but most MDs would say tech has made their lives worse amp made it harder to build relationships. AshPrashar RuthReader Wheres evidence to back that up Some folks think its possible w passive smartphone mon PaulLikeMe Hope so. Ive followed my GPS into some dodgy alley ways amp almost into the ocean once RuthReader There are so few evidencebased tests or hightech things u can do when youre relatively young amp healthy Finally some independent data on wearables gtGist Heart rate accuracy is a lot better energy expenditure sucks AI is not the future of medicine. Better human relationships perhaps facilitated by tech is the future of medicine. bethlinas These are open roles RT AtulGawande That is right. literally zero for the agency whose research has produced extraordinary increases in quality in h RT canaanpartners Startup GenomeMed is training experts to help you figure out what your genetic tests mean via chrissyfarr cnbc http eperlste RRaymann lol ethanjweiss I now work across the street from Philz. Dangerous. StuartBlitz oh good ethanjweiss Not take speed to be clear. But meet people and write words. ethanjweiss Its all I do all day JakeLancasterMD hah StuartBlitz Im a reporter. No fees for us RT RRaymann Healthtech is the hot space for SV investors..amp its a highly complex area So true You need to combine bio behavior and The story And... heres the story Silicon Valley tech VC funds that are looking for MDPhDs gt healthtechishot RT MattRosoff Heres chrissyfarr on how Silicon Valley VCs are falling over themselves to hire partners with biotech backgrounds https An exclusive on a startup that wants to solve a HUGE problem in genetics The shortage of genetic counselors RT jyarow CONFIRMED. Also youd be insane not to join this rocketship. CNBCs tech coverage is literally on fire now. RT vgul chrissyfarr FWIW when I was doing more biotech my research experience was useful but for digital health I find my MD experience Talented reporter friends CNBCtech is still building out its dotcom team. Feel free to DM me if interested. ZJNOLA Thx Correct link cc sabahoney lukebiotech bethlinas People confuse reporters with recruiters andor corporate marketers.Surprised when we do our jobs instead. vgul only if you want to find out whos hiring. Should you invest in biotech if you dont have a PhD ampor MDQuestion that came up this we with this story Okay you guys seem interested. Story coming. Got emails this week from tech VCs asking if I know anyone in bio to join their fund Not my job but fascinating. Could be a story tho... .lydiaramsey interviews GVs Krishna Yeshwant citing CNBCs reporting on AmazonApples moves in health RT Jeniecep This VC had a neardeath experience and it totally changed what he invests in georgezachary chrissy RT benwolfson Unreal reporting by jacknicas and timkhiggins on the UberWaymo trial and Anthony Levandowski RSFlinn whats wrong with humans reaching out to humans RT charlesornstein Medical device security has become a growing concern and journalists should pay attention rebvesely writes. https RT levynews confirming robotodd scoop from yday. RT CNBCtech Nokia and Apple are exploring working on health tech together after settling patent dispute charlesornstein Telemedicine RT rossrubin .qualcomm says that fashion brands are fastestgrowing smartwatch companies. Yes but appeal seems limited to a small part Its hard to believe that someone wants to talk to me if request comes through an agency. I leave my DM open amp email public. And dont bite Warby Parker wants to check your prescription via an app. No trip to the doctors office required. Devastating read RT WIRED To catch regulators up to Silicon Valley speed the FDA is creating a new unit dedicated strictly to digital health verylightnosuga MelindaMWedding onedroptoday CNBC Nope you deserve better verylightnosuga MelindaMWedding onedroptoday CNBC If you dont have diabetes its hard to know what its like. RT eramirez Abstract fitbit most common consumer activity monitor in published work clinical trials amp NIHfunded research Although aunt who is totally blind says its unlikely to work for her. Curious to see evolution here. RT CNBC BREAKING At least dead hundreds injured following possible explosion at UKs Manchester arena NBC News RT MattRosoff Scoop here from robotodd allhands meeting at LeEco tomorrow layoffs widely expected tip Techm Former Apple execs latest column is all about CNBCs reporting on Apples RampD efforts to track glucose ChrisEJay tx Fascinating takeaway for me. Actually visualizing health data helps even if it backs up common sense. MattRosoff Thats my finger in the photo in case you were wondering OMG I wrote a column The first in our guinea pig series on Silicon Valley health hacks feat onedroptoday RT Ashwinning sabahoney chrissyfarr Best hope for DC imo is something that preempts acutetrauma care. That is something where wo JohnWilson yeah but even apple watch isnt immune amp moving in that direction RT sabahoney chrissyfarr all goes back to the r word REIMBURSEMENT You want to revenues gt need to show clinical benefit Note This is a few monthsold story but backs up some of the reporting Im doing now. So much of the consumer health market is shifting to clinicalmedical despite the regulation RT EricTopol Im still searching for peerreviewed study that documents this claim RT EricTopol Only RT CNBC This VC had a neardeath experience and it totally changed what he invests in RT MattRosoff Heres how we choose the CNBC Disruptor Eric Schmidts VC firm is hiring a computational biologist machine learning health is a coveted skillset in SV RT RockHealth What does Tim Cooks glucosemonitor test drive signal for Apples endeavors into the space From chrissyfarr One startup business that is doing very well under Trump Tech for people in need An alltoorare example for blindlowvision users that just raised VC funding megtirrell vgul I tried it last yr but felt a little awkward taking photos of my food. Did you find that RT techreview Microsoft wants to use DNA the densest known storage medium in the universe to replace tape drives. sunshinemug kwong georgezachary Thanks Its georgezacharys story amp honesty My experience as a patient was insane says georgezachary RT Healthtechdoc Google using machine learning to predict illness chrissyfarr I look forward to when they build this into my EMR https RT barneyp Investor George Zachary was mistakenly diagnosed with cancerand it changed where he puts his money RT CNBCtech After a phone call changed his life this venture capitalist made a dramatic shift in investing RT lukebiotech Great coverage by chrissyfarr on George Zachary and motivations to shift into biotech great person and investor.https adamfeuerstein MugatuCapital exMBB MattRosoff Show me data from either one RT CliftonLeaf Great story by chrissyfarr on VC George Zacharys deeply personal decision invest in deep insight bioengineering https RT bijans VC George Zachary was mistakenly diagnosed with cancerand it changed where he puts his money by chrissyfarr MugatuCapital adamfeuerstein MattRosoff The firm isnt transitioning to biotech. RT MattRosoff This is an amazing story Whats behind georgezacharys shift to bio investing A cancer scare that changed his life inspiring levynews Thanks for the great edit RT levynews for you healthtech peeps be ready for a great and inspiring yes im biased weekend feature tomorrow from chrissyfarr. s Its a Twitter poll. Very limited characters qhardy Because its no substitution What would be more likely to prompt you NOT to eat that double cheeseburger and fries Really excited about a digital package running on Sat on CNBCtech. Got teary watching the draft video. Stay tuned. miljko I dont personally want or not want Apple to do something. Im reporting what I seehear is happening. RT berthacoombs chrissyfarr jayparkinson stephenkraus But its also tougher to disrupt medical things than things like car service. An Biggest change Ive made recently for my health is drinking more water .stephenkraus from our interview yesterday Theres an argument that every big tech company should have a play in health care. RT Techmeme Source Apple CEO spotted testdriving prototype glucosetracker connected to Apple Watch RSFlinn megtirrell I was kinda kidding with the young blood... Crowd seems to have spoken VtgPoint megtirrell I like it moorehn If it moves towards being a medical device that changes things. Which of these bodyhacking trends should me amp megtirrell try NeuCare statesdj Smart perspective cc jayparkinson RT NeuCare statesdj chrissyfarr Sad but not surprising to me. Cant summarize in but here is my perspective . . . moorehn Disagree. In U.S. alone M people have prediabetes adultsM have type If Apple cracks noni carlquintanilla edmundlee edmundlee thx RT edmundlee .chrissyfarr immediate scoop machine for CNBC JohnNosta LotharKrinke akalali Theres a fascinating story to be told here gt RT cwalker Im not diabetic but would totally wear an Apple Watch for this. Tim Cook told students that in U.S. med devices prioritize payment over user experience. And Apple can play a role Tip techmeme ahier dexcom CNBC demccaffrey achieveinternet PortblPancGrl histalk WearablesAus applewatchapps axios Yep via HealthKit matthewherper If its a standard med device then yes. But Apple working on no needles. RT digiphile Continuous noninvasive monitoring through a connected wearable medical device would be huge for Apple million America RT vgul chrissyfarr healthtech scoop machine RT BradMcCarty Woo Big BIG story here from Christina and CNBC. Exclusive Tim Cook has been testdriving a prototype glucometer on Apple Watch hinting at future plans source RT MattRosoff Fun chrissyfarr scoop coming up... bradybiz LaurenGoode True story nickwingfield For that reason its a nice to have for wellness everyone in industry expecting a lot more medical functionality. LaurenGoode Yah low carbketo seems to be all the rage. nickwingfield Hm dont agree. Where healthtech is going amp Apple is towards datatracking for chronic illness. nickwingfield Tech is a tool. For some on weight loss journeys its a helpful one. Fascinating that Tim Cook lost pounds in part thanks to his Apple Watch. RT CNBC Amazons price war is good for consumers and bad for everyone else says NYU Professor via cnbctech RT CNBC Trump administration removes signup speedbump on could boost Obamacare enrollment RT soychemist chrissyfarr ErikaCheck Overly Punny Headline Idea From FDA to ABC Califfs New Caliphate is Verily Packed with Devices Great to see danamlewis OpenAPS TregJenna RecoveryRecord amp tomdelbanco OpenNotes featured. Last task at FC stephenkraus BessemerVP Thats for giving me an excuse to say go big or go home in a story. Amazon could break open the pharmacy space says stephenkraus also feat. tjparker from PillPack RT strngwys Apples gonna have to bring it at WWDC You guys like our new CNBCtech Facebook page if you want to keep up with the tech news and scoops RT DShaywitz Another great chrissyfarr story and GOOGs Katherine Chou quoted in it total rock star. RT vgul chrissyfarr So amazon takes PBMs and Google takes on insurers. What a time to be alive RT CNBC Google is training computers to predict when you might get sick We can improve predictions for medical events that might happen to you Google Brain GoogleIO akalali JohnNosta Here goes. What are you doing RT berthacoombs .chrissyfarr on PowerLunch with her AMZN rx scoop RT eramirez chrissyfarr I mean could be a pretty interesting use for Echo Echo Show voice amp video calls Have a medication Just a CourtReagan PowerLunch CNBC thx RT TDAungst aaadvani chrissyfarr I think this is to be expected and Ill be curious to see the pharmacists response. Gonna be a lot of RT levynews Google is making a bigtime move in silicon that should scare Nvidia via jordannovet Got hair and makeup did for PowerLunch on CNBC. Tune in for more on Amazon getting into pharmacy market. matthewherper calif Thx Matt Surprised that Califf isnt leading Baseline given the partners are Duke amp Stanford. matthewherper calif And also an adjunct prof. at Stanford. Reax to Amazon news from yesterday Skeptical will never happen.Duh. What took them so long RT statesdj chrissyfarr unclenate My question what took them so long Its an obvious lucrative niche ideally suited to Amazons busin amalec Thx amalec for taking hours to explain PBMs to me on a napkin RT daphnezohar Former FDA commissioner joins Verily another digital medicine scoop by chrissyfarr A big deal for Alphabet Califf is recentlydeparted FDA commissioner Alphabets Verily confirmed that Califf is joining. Our scoop from yesterday GOOG RT MattRosoff Verily confirms chrissyfarrs scoop from yesterday here mbaram Thanks Miss you guys RT aweissman Your prescription is my opportunity RT sallyshin Catch chrissyfarr on PowerLunch today discussing her Amazon scoop gt AMZN CVS WBA RT ClayDellMed chrissyfarr .Weve been predicting this would happen. Huge opportunity here given small added value of middle players. RT mims Amazons rationale for getting into pharmacy market Health insurance access is collapsing so theres profit to be made RT CNBCnow EXCLUSIVE Amazon is hiring a business lead to figure out how the company can break into the pharmacy market vivekmurthy He says science is not the same as someone elses opinion Addiction is a disease of despair says vivekmurthy recentlydeparted surgeon general inforumsf RT FarzadMD Huge. McKesson should be girding for battle RT carlquintanilla CNBCs chrissyfarr with the scoop of Amazons new efforts to enter the pharmacy bizAMZN Amazon holds a meeting annual to strategize whether to get into the pharmacy space. This year its getting serious. jyarow Tip Techmeme RT jyarow Boom The latest chrissyfarr scoop Scoop Amazon is hiring a team to break into the pharmacy market RSFlinn Oh god I hope not RT statnews Why nabbing former FDA commissioner Robert Califf would be a win for Verily News ht to chrissyfarr RT onedroptoday The market for non PWDs checking bloodsugars is weirdly booming chrissyfarr talks to jeffdac JohnWilson Its a crazy beat RT rachaelmbade I just asked DarrellIssa abt the Comey news and he flicked me off literally gave me the middle finger and kept wal Got another healthtech scoop coming in a few hours... stay tuned. RT samsanders Live shot of New York Times and Washington Posts newsrooms RT JCMcCracken Scoopage from chrissyfarr Obama former FDA chief in talks to join Alphabets health tech co. This would be a very important hire for Alphabet GOOG CNBCtech cc RockHealth RT CNBCtech Obamas former FDA chief is in talks to join Verily Alphabets health tech company Exclusive Obamas FDA commissioner has been in talks with Verily about a potential role RT levynews Quattrone couldnt promise Bezos that an IPO price would fail.So Bezos priced at . Need to talk to an endocrinologist this week. DM me Bill Maris wont solely focus on health for his new fund but a broad array of startups RT mbeisen Anybody still want to argue science doesnt have a race and gender problem RT fredtrotter cool data journalism from doximity on doctor last names geoffreywoo hoffsbeefs FKAelusive Its fair. We need to be mindful of clinical evidence. RT geoffreywoo My team nootrobox and I track our blood glucose very closely along w ketones. This will be standard biometrics.https Day of my bodyhacking experiment amp reminded how annoying it is that Fitbit data doesnt transfer to HealthKit. New feature At this startup everyone tracks their blood glucose and no one has diabetes. davidlee MattRosoff True Id be more into a ChristinaAI if it actually worked. Can think of at least AI companies called Ava. Parents of Avas how do you feel about that cc MattRosoff RT vanessamason chrissyfarr can we have companion AI to knock down bogus digital health sales claims with bad or false science KellyKane PR folks dont like these stories either Sometimes I get sent them by comms teams amp its so fluffy I dont know what to say. gillse not JordanMichaels onedroptoday TBH the See Food app is not a terrible idea. atulbutte UCSFICHS jure Pinterest Stanford UCSF Can gamification make us healthier in longrun levydr lol gd name atulbutte UCSFICHS jure Pinterest Stanford UCSF Pinterest and biomedicine Startup idea AI to root out press releasedriven articles with no original reporting loopj agreed. I think I sound a lot more suave than I actually do. Like... ugh.... Um Worst thing about transcribing transcripts is listening to my own voice awkward approaches I see a lot in healthtech Ill find out what clinicianspatients need Ill create something me amp my friends need RT BobWachter Illustrating amp celebrating diversity ucsf graduating UCSFMedicine students say st line of Physician Declaration i RSFlinn This person is about as in touch as Marie Antoinette Let them eat avocado toast RT MikeIsaac i see weve spotted this weeks i refuse to date hot women object of internet hatred manlet the obligatory humiliation c Lunch from a robot RT ariannahuff The body is not a computer. It cannot be hacked rewired engineered or upgraded great piece from kristenvbrown https RT RhonaAPhD High blood pressure linked to racial segregation in neighborhoods NIH morganoliveira anahadoconnor IN RT RockHealth The USFDA has a new head honchoand is hatching plans to create a centralized digitalhealth unit. RT jeffdachis chrissyfarr onedroptoday Yeah but honestly super fucking hard and not happening anytime soon. The See Food app is why I dont watch Silicon Valley. Too close to home. Tried out app last yr where I took took photos of all my meals jeffdachis onedroptoday I heard about that amp honestly not a terrible idea Tracked my blood sugar all weekend with onedroptodayFirst takeaway Someone needs to crack foodlogging. Manual is too timeconsuming. ASawyerMD Yep. Too few characters on twitter bah RT cwhogg Ok admit I was skeptical of the press hype but that is a nice looking curve. SiVola CNBC AppCardiogram AliveCor Different. AliveCor tracks EKG not just heart rate. Its a separate device that attaches to a phone. Bay Area hospital partnerships w techUCSF Samsung GE Intel Stanford Medicine Google Apple Researchkit RT kelseylh Seen in my FB feed Some lady made a cutout of the top half of Spicers head and is sticking it in random bushes RT matthewherper Human Longevity is offering a pared down version of its DNA sequencingMRI experience for . RT rosenthal Code grey used in Ontario hospital when IT goes down. Evidence of how tech fragility impacts health systems RT ddiamond Fallout from the hackers holding hospitals hostage. Just a soulless horrible crime. RT erikrtn chrissyfarr GariClifford bballinger Sepsis is example of complex illness where clinicians not agree but general conse RT TIME Theresa May Cyberattack that crippled U.K. hospitals is global Screenshots shared online purportedly from NHS staff show a program demanding in Bitcoin Woah Already well more than B has been poured into blood tests for earlycancer detection PsycleDoc Nope I should. What do you recommend for that johnchilmark Where is there agreement RT chrissyfarr Thinking recently about a problem with AIhealth. How can you train a computing system if doctors dont agree on correct l RT AustenAllred Silicon Valley is the only place in the world where the fear of missing out is greater than the fear of being wrong RT atulbutte Hmm Apple now cares about what you do in bed by chrissyfarr RT CNBC Biotech startups like Guardant are in arms race for early cancer detection RT amalec Tn Inefficient flawed ripe for disruption consumerization RT AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr Id like SV investors to spend few weeks homeless functionally impaired or caring for child w complex n RT megtirrell How a breast cancer diagnosis changed the path of this MIT computer scientist RT shanebauer Its truly incredible how no matter what the industry people always seem to convince themselves they are making the worl Shocked and awed by the sheer number of body hackers out there. Im late to this train but getting on it. Lots more to come CNBCtech RT BenBajarin chrissyfarr Yep. Did this and BP for a week learned a number of foods dont do well with me and had no idea. Solved a lot Im going to be tracking my blood sugar this week. Think Ill learn anything Note I dont have diabetes. RT CNBC This startup has stumbled across an incredibly popular use for the Apple Watch RT mysleepscore New VP of Sleep amp Scientific Affairs RRaymann spoke w chrissyfarr about joining our team. Details RT ERamosSD Important message about our blind spots in technology and medicine from Medicaids AndreyOstrovsky. Opportunity for GC too Thinking recently about a problem with AIhealth. How can you train a computing system if doctors dont agree on correct label RT MaxiMacki Creating a digital phenotype mapping mentalhealth by tracking behavioral changes on your phone RT ajvielma How the Apple Watch can screen for heart rhythm abnormalities via chrissyfarr cc vpbadillo New feature on AppCardiogram How the Apple Watch can screen for heart rhythm abnormalities RT CNBC OpEd How Elon Musks Neuralink could help the rich get richer RT POLITICOPulse Who were reading todayDhruvKhullarMHShelbyL barkholzR chrissyfarrMTannerCato kyledcheneyhttps What you see at Apple is a genuine passion for everything related to health Pedestrians vs. humans in fancy SF neighborhoods with fast cars lisabari Lol eramirez JohnTorousMD gingerio Fr sure but last I heard lost some clinical folks amp pivoted RT erikrtn PTSD can be classified from objective heart rate using signal proc. amp machinelearning emorymedicine DoctorV That was my reaction. But Tom Insel is former head of NMIH so might know a few things kcm gd point Kind of amazing to think there might be mental health indicators from how we type on a phone keyboard RT aprilzero After dinner curry with naan were up to Cool thing is the measurements sync to phone and HealthKit automatically. Maybe now is a good time to admit that I dont understand how to use Snapchat. RT halletecco I see this all the time making money as a healthcare startup doesnt always align with making the system better Tom Insel formerly Alphabet life sciences Verily and NMIH on the opportunities to bring tech to mental health RT CNBC Former Alphabet exec is working on an idea to detect mental disorders by how you type on your phone RT omadahealth Great story chrissyfarr we agree that Medicaid needs to be served by digital health Super appreciate calls with academics about healthtech. General sentiment Its promising but might not work in the realworld. truth EbolaPhone jeffdachis onedroptoday thx sabahoney ditto charliefick onedrop jeffdachis its part of QS trend .onedrop jeffdachis onedroptoday jacquimiller lol Is anyone in SF who doesnt have diabetes using test strips to track blood sugar from a service like onedrop DM me. cc jeffdachis RT AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr Important clarification Medicaid IT has advanced esp with MSIS to TMSIS move but big oppty to accelera Apple getting serious in health An RampD glucosemonitoring team acquisitions of EMR company Gliimpse and now sleeptracking Beddit Beddit updated its privacy page to say its been acquired by Apple. M adults with sleep disorders BIG MARKET RT CNBCtech Microsoft has an idea for using smart glasses to track your diet RT jodilhbutts Very cool call to action. Will the Valley answer RT DonnaYoungDC .ScottGottliebMD confirmed as FDA commissionerpharma biotech RT jayparkinson AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr I would love to work with Medicaid pops. But yrs of talks and yrs of pilots is fundin Has anyone out there used an offlabel CGM to track their blood sugar but does not have diabetes If so DM me. OwenMoss AndreyOstrovsky We talked about all kinds of stuff so theres definitely room for more coverage on this impt topic RT CNBC Silicon Valley is missing a big opportunity because it doesnt understand poor people .AndreyOstrovsky Something Ive talked about a fair bit with stephenkraus amp AmbarBh RT TonyRomm real fascinating interview wa top government official My latest An interview with AndreyOstrovsky on a big opportunity that Silicon Valley is missing Medicaid. RT matthewherper Clients listen to your agencies. Otherwise why did you hire them They are closer to the ground. AlexSteffen LOL Highlights from this weeks pitches Wellness pills made from olive extracts Jewelry made from human embryos M for pet food delivery nikillinit varund profgalloway Would you give all of yours up Hmm... Whenever I visit the UK Im struck by how many people care about privacy. Health data in particular. Could this help the SF Giants RT brianpagan chrissyfarr Though its important to consider that facebook also targets emotionally vulnerable teens for ads RT CitizenCohn Dont feel like this sarahkliff story today got the attention it deserved mhbergen Yep Verily officially confirms our scoop on Tom Insels departure with a blog post The story RT PsycleDoc chrissyfarr There still arent that many digital savvy psychiatrists out there never mind ones who understand leadership RT jdudley IBMFacts megtirrell chamath IBMFacts instead of appealing to authority and anecdote why not publish your results and see i PsycleDoc Too soon to say but possible theyll promote internally RT RasuShrestha Healthtechdoc SimplifiMed ahier FarzadMD jameyedwards chrissyfarr drnic naveen JohnNosta cagefreesingh To RT CNBC Forget taxes Warren Buffett says. The real problem is health care. RT JohnNosta Mental health leader Thomas Insel is leaving Alphabets Verily. digitalhealth google RT megtirrell .chamath IBM Watson is a joke RT levynews Scoop from chrissyfarr Mental health leader Dr. Thomas Insel is leaving Alphabets Verily tip at Techmeme SCOOP Thomas Insel who heads up Verilys mental health team is leaving.Verily says the effort will continue. Welcome to the CNBC tech team jordannovet RT CNBC BREAKING Apples market value crosses billion for the first time ever Super interesting amp tip of the iceberg for what Facebook could do in health RT RebeccaDRobbins This is fun and good marketing but how good is their coverage of all the normal and important medical benefits htt How PBMs the middlemen between drug makers payers and pharmacies thrive through opacity and confusion Reflecting on my Europe trip. Best lesson I got on AI amp neural networks was a game of Go with a data scientist. RT levynews Over the weekend we profiled the yearold prof who left retirement to help lead Googles massive silicon project RT AmbarBh Great coverage on a growing trend in healthcare biotech fundraising by chrissyfarr chrismichel lol Internet memes on the building at Google London goog Hello from CNBC London w ArjunKharpal mattclinch techteam Courtship in other species RT JimEdwards REPORT Buckingham Palace emergency meeting is not about the Queen or Prince Philips health halhod Ill take the rain the monarchy tube delays Brexit etc... as long as I get to sit in a real pub and have a pint Arrived in London just as Buckingham Palace called an emergency meeting. Expecting updates at am. homesweethome RT albertfong Theres plenty of buzz for health monitoring apps but you may want to trust your instincts more RT usembassyoslo The U.S. Embassy in Oslo is supporting todays tedxoslo at the National Theatre. RT CNBCtech An Oslo professor discovers a reason you cant completely trust health monitoring apps Wrote a post from tedxoslo on the perils of health monitoring apps Privacy expert Milos Novovic at tedxoslo The holy grail for Facebook ads is to use our content to promote produ RT joshuamcclure More records have been seen by hackers than by patients. paraphrasing chrissyfarr TEDx Oslo Done and done. And a topic close to my RT TEDxOslo What if the patient knows best chrissyfarr talks about how health amp technology combined can improve the patients experie weeks of parental leave per child in Norway. Meanwhile in America... tedxoslo RT DrBorve chrissyfarr They have arrested a couple and confiscated their Uber income. And the police track Twitter.... Hearing from the youngestever minister of Norway The main reason for our wealth isnt oil. Its our women. RT CNBC Uber drivers in Norway fear losing their license or even their car Norwegian medical students sexual health workers dispelling myths about the hymen. Its not a seal its more like .TedXOslo Jan Grue on the perils of using apps that claim diagnose a babys mood. Either the app is wrong or were terrible parents. A full house at TEDxOslo. Me right now RT MattRosoff Our Oslo correspondent for the next few days anyway chrissyfarr with an update on how weird it is to take an Uber there. Norwegian Uber drivers say if the police find out theyre using Uberpop they can lose their license and car. Someone has to sit upfront. Being in Norway and learning about all the invasions migrations over past k years makes me v skeptical about genealogy Q for European entrepreneurs Did you find that when you tried to fundraise in Silicon Valley you were told you needed a local office RT Jeniecep Silicon Valleys elite are flocking to an extreme highfat diet in hopes of living longer ketodiet graemedmoffat bradpwyble andpru credit to colleague johnshinal quickmuse its for sure butttt... amazing employer benefits. Might have to retire to a Fjord someday views Oslo RT keithgrimes vgul chrissyfarr Sovereign wealth fund of gt Tn by A commitment to ban petrol cars by Very wise folk those chrissyfarr oh and it is AWESOME. Biggest takeaway from Oslo so far so few cars on the road. Streets more favorable to buses overground trains bikes and pedestrians green RT washingtonpost Longfrozen DNA shows how humans made horses faster and more likely to get sick Woah my inbox is filled with people telling me about their keto diets. diabetes bloodsugar bodyback Oslos free totally sane amp easytouse parking app. With JarredColli. RT SkyGemma Good to see ketosis getting coverage. Its not a lifestyle for everyone but has helped me control blood glucose swings for Congrats CNBC SF FarzadMD AmbarBh BRobertsVC dschol VishalVasishth Ill do it but are you ready for cranky tweets RT CNBC Silicon Valleys elite are flocking to an extreme highfat diet in hopes of living longer RT bfrank Ketogenic diets good coverage by chrissyfarr been talking to a bunch of VCs on diet too. My latest feature is on the latest VC trend Ketogenic diets feat AmbarBh BRobertsVC dschol VishalVasishth jfgm oh man Im getting different advice on the memorization one JeffBenjam thanks matthewherper I say you know instead of um I cant tell where that comes from. British thing MilenaRodban why a pen And while Im at it any speaking tips What to do with hands pacing how much should be memorized eperlste yes Headed to Oslo for TEDx first time on stage Accepting all travel tips recommendations.. RT Techmeme CEO confirms Rubrik raised M led by Institutional Venture Partners at .B valuation DShaywitz DrDoctorApp BobWachter Weve talked before. BobWachter lets catch up RT DShaywitz This week healthcurious tech VCs. Me and VentureValkyrie forbes gt chrissyfarr CNBC gt https RT chrissyfarr Imagine a Life Sciences investor saying Tech is ripe for disruption. And its a multitrillion market...Introducing o In the UK next week amp looking at healthtech companies to meet with. Appreciate candor like this from DrDoctorApp Does this person have diabetes or heart disease RT JanaChow A biotech company is a science experiment at its core that has never been run before by chrissyfarr This. From WendeHutton RT BradMcCarty This is why I think its so crucial that more physicians and hospital groups join syndicate funding rounds. They KNOW what  Tech investors will offer higher valuations if they believe youre going to grow like a tech company. RT MattRosoff Interesting story from chrissyfarr heretech VCs raising biotech valuations surprising founders RT jenhab No moderates have publicly flipped to support Obamacare repeal. Chief concern preexisting conditions RT bgurley michellegreer i dont want a quick exit but I dont want to worry about trials and regulation too much either. RT CNBCtech Microsofts cloud business is growing almost twice as fast as Amazons with Google far behind Pichai on bring your kid to work day We had thousands of screaming kids running around Googleplex which is how I feel sometimes honest Alphabet earnings are a reminder that while we love to focus on the cool moonshot stuff its really about advertising. RT ahess So basically Amazon and Google Microsoft and Intel RT businessinsider BREAKING Ubers selfdriving car boss Anthony Levandowski is stepping aside amid legal fight with Waymo Alphabets other bets revenue primarily generated by Verily Nest and Fiber. Alphabet RT fredtrotter Doctors should be patient facing and not computer facing SecPriceMD hdpalooza RT puiwingtam So good from theonion ht jimkerstetterZuckerberg Touts Complete Lack Of Cannibalism On Facebook Live So Far RT CNBCtech Larry Page provides new insight into Alphabets health ambitions RT jennylaurello in patients who review doc notesrecord report a potential error elizcohencnn on healthcare transparency pt em Following tweets from hdpalooza today amp wishing I could be there. RT Cascadia Real pivot in openNotes project wasnt flipping a switch to share data it was changing role of patient to full partners HDP A new business model for wearables Monetizing athletes health data . Scoop from last night. Brook Byers founding partner of KPCB joins Grails board. liquidbiopsy RT techreview Medical imageslike xrays and MRIsare a nearly perfect match for the strengths of deeplearning software. .levynews tip Techmeme SCOOP with levynews Grail adds Brook Byers to its board raises an additional M just shy of its B goal jdudley More a media hype thing. We tend to overlook the academic research in favor of the venturebacked approaches. In the U.S. venture are flowing to liquid biopsy startups. In the UK researchers reveal results a year early BrianEastwood nope thank god Love this. So often theres a deeper story behind the news the stuff that doesnt make it into print That is not what Im hearing in the Valley where MDs with a technical background are in hot demand A doctor finishing her masters in data science told by her medical school that she is too specialized RT Monkiejens chrissyfarr Who pray tell MD here finishing masters in data science school says Im too specialized for career couns antonioregalado love this method of getting readers to engage with a story RT jrovner for now. give it a few hours. AmbarBh why only MBAs How about some liberal arts kids RT zeynep With this data Amazon wont be able to just sell you clothes or judge you. It could analyze if youre depressed or pregnant an RT mrbellis Ever been on a horrendous job interview Working on a FastCompany story so hit me with the cringeworthy details and lesson RT JBaruchMD Instead of chatter abt disruptive tech in medicine amp patientcentered care lets focus on meeting patients basic needs MattRosoff inafried agreed rborkows lol I dont crush juice nearly as well as ellenhuet and OliviaZaleski If I say I feel anxious about not killing or crushing something in this case a talk can I still live in Silicon Valley RT abhasvc Quote from a friend who just launched his new venture fund Ive learned that you cant sell returns you can only sell dream mikemitt you also gotta wonder about the formula that works for readers RT CNBCJosh Sunrise from the CNBC SF bureau stephenkraus Writing about biotechdigital therapeutics cos with a v. diverse set of valuations. What do they choose Imagine a Life Sciences investor saying Tech is ripe for disruption. And its a multitrillion market...Introducing our new tech fund. amalec yuss ethanjweiss lol Healthtech hype cycle acc. to my InboxEMRs gt telemedicine gt digital health gt digital therapeutics gt computational bio gt AIhealth Why have you never taken a DNA test Obvi dont try to answer if you have vgul Inc startup builds website it hopes doctors will use Crappy headline. Its always hard to strike a balance About x more likely to respond if a founder reaches out personally. Passion shines through. seanessee its amazing to me how many founders I meet who never considered that this idea has actually been tried before many many times RT seanessee To be followed by Founder discovers hard lesson in healthcare we had an amazing product but BigMoneyHealthcare didnt w RT GeneticCouns A Some of my fave Tweeters on genomics amp health EricTopol chrissyfarr edyong RobertCGreen DrKhouryCDC Genome Except in this case the market is only trillion. How many times will we see this headline This app is disrupting the trillion health care marketGAH noitsnot RT DanielleEdges Just because someone doesnt have an MD doesnt mean they do not have the intelligent capability to figure it out. RT gwsuperfan chrissyfarr As a pt I LOVE my EMR. I realize experiences vary but KPShare does it right. Labs Rxs Msging wHCPs all Tragic. Trading insulin online is a booming practice for struggling families. .tifftpham Trying to reach you. Whats your best email RT jbrooksfoy chrissyfarr Ive been hearing docs are liking them a little better now than when they first became widespread. Thoughts RT clivecookson Artificial womb could save thousands of extremely premature babies from death or disability. http GilmerHealthLaw samlynd a lot of user experience flaws but list hints at potential promise RT GilmerHealthLaw chrissyfarr samlynd Problems with that list... ptexp RT gabrieldane chrissyfarr As a patient myself I do love having access to my lab results on my smartphone anytime I want them. samlynd Nice RT samlynd chrissyfarr off the top of my head. nikillinit Theres a dearth of resources for patients to understand why they should access either at least acc. t Trying to read about why patients would benefit from EMR access but only finding Why theyre annoying for docs How it could save .AmbarBh in the CNBC studio today talking about the most hardcore thing hes ever done for startup due diligence RT hjsoch One of the biggest middlemen in the drug industry is losing its largest customer and the stock is tanking antonioregalado Totally fair. .antonioregalado calls BS on Musks timelines for Neurolink. I say its not going to happen. RT sarahkliff A crazy stat here the health care industry now employs out of Americans. josephflaherty No one wants their health care disrupted. pitchtoben lol RT jayparkinson Seriously what do you do when your previous investor gives your entire client list along with terms to your biggest comp So much of healthtech is fueled byTech exec with gets older gt has brush with broken health system gt funds startup.Rinse amp repeat. RT DoniBloomfield .CarolineYLChen tracked down how many are paying for SoonShiongs K cancer test. Answer Almost no one. NH https This round of reader emails Please intro me to this company amp team that youve written about. Heres my resume. RT matthewherper This is an amazing read Ubers C.E.O. Plays With Fire RT EricHolthaus On Friday for the first time since the dawn of the Industrial Revolution Britains power was entirely coalfree.https RT katiedjennings Trump administration dismisses surgeon general Vivek Murthy via USATODAY RT JPrendergass Neuralink is hiring. Experience with experimental neurosurgery a plus We have power at CNBC so no more photos of you amp your colleagues sipping Mai Tais before pm please. sfpoweroutage RT CNBCtech Patients are flashing doctors in video medicine apps and its a problem andrewkill elonmusk maybe I should just give up now and let AI do my job carlquintanilla CaseyNewton Needed it on a Friday afternoon RT CaseyNewton TWITTER Editing tweets is too complicated to implementFACEBOOK Someday you will hear with your skin Loved this anecdote. RT charlesornstein Every sector of health care system except for drugs have prices that are set through some process says DavidPAD RT robotodd The guy who D printed his own brain tumor has joined Apple by chrissyfarr RT AndreyOstrovsky jayparkinson tjparker chrissyfarr VCs that embrace slightly longer liquidity timelines yrs w enough high qu CNBC and he D printed his brain tumor... RT CNBC The guy who D printed his own brain tumor has joined Apple Scooplet on a cool new Apple hire whos a proponent of open access to health data I will not respond if you cc your AI scheduler. Dehumanizing amp probably saves only m in time. ldtimmerman Yes its like permanently being in school RT gedankenstuecke Related to stevenkeatings data access stories What happened when I asked andMe for my data. sageassembly https RT ldtimmerman .EricTopol calls Verilys Project Baseline a massive PR effort. Not so massive to enroll k people. m would be mass RT Medidata Google maps for healthcare Verily DukeU amp StanfordMed collect data for longitudinal health study RT mdelamerced Amazing hire RT sherman I guess this is official. Needless to say this is an amazing hire. jayparkinson halletecco tjparker AndreyOstrovsky Hmm...I think I already read the first chapter. KatieS canaanpartners HelloAngels love to Went to the first VCportfolio CEO dinner of my journalistic career yesterday that was mostly women hosted by canaanpartners RT XplodingUnicorn According to my phone my wife has been typing for minutes.Either the app froze or Im about to receive the worst SusannahFox one of two. The second should be out soon RT levynews For those of you who geek out in TPUs.. RT GarryChoy Several Google engineers have left one of its most secretive AI projects to form a stealth startup CNBC RT thinkmariya Oh internet gt Patients use video telemedicine apps to flash doctors. Exposed by chrissyfarr RT davidvivero chrissyfarr HC is not a T market. Its like B markets all very different. RT MeganMolteni Geneticists at Stanford fear Illumina sequencers may distort results for certain applications. My annewellpepper I think youre right cc MattRosoff cwhogg geoffclapp SkipFleshman Woah so bizarre. RT VentureValkyrie New blog post Heart breaker alert Digital medical devices are not meant for direct to consumer sales. Trust me. http RT ScottMAustin I need whatever wizard hat elonmusk is making to get through this neuroscience lesson but its fascinating RT ericschmidt Exciting to see Verilys first study wk participants. More insightsbetter healthcare https geoffclapp cwhogg SkipFleshman I thought Id get a lot of shock I was surprised but sounds like its a thing. JennyAGold Weirdest part is that it takes like m to sign up and costs RT cwhogg chrissyfarr SkipFleshman i learned this difficult lesson very quickly with Plus. add an option for photos and people get v RT bethlinas If there is a way to exploit something sadly people will. We must do better for digitalhealth RT CNBCtech Video medicine is a promising business but its being exposed to the oldest problem on the internet MartinBell One would think so SkipFleshman Ditto I was shocked. Also brings up some fascinating questions around privacysecurity amp online harassment. RT megtirrell Who pays to flash a doctor Enough people that its a problem apparently. chrissyfarr reports RT SkipFleshman I never would have foreseen this Telemedicine behavior happening Report Doctors on telemedicine apps are getting exposed to the Internets oldest problem. Horrifying but true... stevenaquino AndreyOstrovsky thx megtirrell Just watched it myself. Got pretty hooked. Couldnt believe there wasnt a disclaimer at any point with resources to get help. RT GilmerHealthLaw Theyre here but no one asks them to contribute. Many disability communities want to have a voice but most of tech sho RT mdweinberg AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr To the extent healthcare needs to be disrupted its through better fulfillment of social ne AndreyOstrovsky Id love to see more for users with disabilities. My aunt is blind and going deaf. Tech could REALLY help her. BenedictEvans yeah more accurate. Although IT also made some things worse. RT selenalarson what is apple working on that would hurt employees eyes Any takers A call from the CMO of Medicaid. RT GilmerHealthLaw How many years have they been saying this now Anyone who uses the word disruption at this point knows nothing about t RT AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr For VCs serious about improving health and experience by tapping Billion markets in Medicaid Im MattMHunter were so official Plug to like our new Facebook page for updates on CNBCtech news .Jeniecep amp I are interested to talk to folks who are willing to do this to explain codingAI etc... Hearing lotsa complaints from mental health experts about this Netflix show Reasons Why. Seems to have broken every rule re suicide. Have always maintained that if you cant explain your tech to a yo try again. RT NEOdotLIFE Anorexia may originate in your gut and your DNA not in fashion magazines. microbiome KapurGyan I was JUST thinking that about online real estate gt healthtech cc davidvivero samiinkinen Thanks to all the people scientists researchers docs etc. who explain stuff to me when Im on deadline. You guys are the best. morganwreed I also dont like the whole patient consumer thing. Rest of the world to Silicon Valley today via my twitter Good luck with the health thing. Fail a whole lot learn amp then well talk. RT cometeclipse chrissyfarr Classic SV thinking. they hav no idea of what Drs actually do so the disruption will be just that consume RT katmcdavitt chrissyfarr I hear this from nonhealthcare investors. But healthcare isnt the free market and patients dont always beh RT ArielleDRoss Fun fact I learned on Monday Apple HQ a lab tech makes half a gallon of synthetic sweat EACH DAY to test products https jasonwilson Yep if you have Kaiser attilacsordas agecurve Presence of a startup doesnt mean its not nascent. RT DShaywitz also chrissyfarr consumerism not universally viewed as panacea for many reasons as amitabhchandra amp others can opi A new competitor to One Medical which also boasts same day appts that can be booked w a mobile app wo clinics nikillinit aweissman me no likey techguy agree. Being sick and looking for a doctor isnt like buying an iPad BrianEastwood say more aweissman say more Silicon Valley investors say the same thing a lot re health trillion market ripe for disruption Trend of consumerizationAgree bgurley Im a health amp tech reporter. Would love to chat to you about your health care thesis christina.farrnbcuni.com RT bgurley While the opportunity in healthcare is massive of GDP with tons of inefficiencies navigating the landscape is qui RT bgurley Over years ago sent tweet below. Having invested in OpenTable Zillow Grubhub Uber we felt same opportunity existed i matthewherper I had like people message me to say they were completely confused. I couldnt follow either. If Facebook could read your thoughts what would it find out Neuroscientists message me please. If I typed thoughts directly from my brain into Facebook esp. after a bad day everyone would defriend me. RT antonioregalado I dont want these people involved with my brain. SOUNDS LIKE THE FUTUREIf we can make it possible to communicate through your brain can we make it possible to hear from your skin F mhbergen honestly surprised that story got posted. Gabe has explicitly said TM doesnt cover medicaltech gt RT megtirrell Not just your spit they want so much more Tune in RT levynews Company claims to be tech company Company raises money from big tech investors Company gets covered by tech report RT KurtWagner Facebook wants to read our minds. Literally. RT sarahfrier Facebook says Regina Dugan is going to speak today about brain to computer interfacing Building stuff levie Unless you have a womans health company too niche On the behavior that irritates non Silicon Valleytypes in health care the most by Verily is funding its own version of the Framingham Heart Study genomics proteomics microbiome smartwatches corywilkerson so many problems to solve with our food system that we need for Meanwhile more than of Americans say they couldnt handle a surprise bill eringriffith ellenhuet OliviaZaleski technology lol RT eringriffith this is my favorite story today bravo ellenhuet and OliviaZaleski RT megtirrell Verily starts kperson study dubbed Project Baseline to create Google Maps for health care from chrissyfarr https RT jakemcclure chrissyfarr can attest health integration in Google search is definitely yielding some quality search results ethanjweiss FarzadMD bijans want to see what fuss is all about...plus Im a sugar fiend FarzadMD bijans I could probably do that although was aiming for a month sfslim woah did you keep it up joshuamcclure thx Will try that. hillcharlotte one of those days People at Alphabet are trying to think about how to do health care in a way that will give them more freedom charlesarthur RockHealth does a good job of tracking this. nikillinit is another one to talk to. jdudley did you ever get the breath issue Love this lede from ainsleyocs story about Tilts demise dude it was going to be awesome. End of my prior tweet Im so tempted to try the keto diet. Whos done it RT megkesh Theranos to return every dollar it made on tests in Arizona. RT antidoteme Just in case you thought Alphabet was done with healthcare chrissyfarr cnbc puts the record straight RT kimmaicutler .Rachaelbn spent gtyr exploring the ins and outs of health insurance and where it falls short on answering claims https mdmajmudar bballinger water intake is a good one. Manual these days. yrs ago AmyDBMine sent an open letter to Steve Jobs asking for diabetestech where design isnt an afterthought RT MattRosoff Interesting tidbit from chrissyfarrs story on Alphabet and the Silicon Valley health tech revolution in American adults have prediabetes qhardy yeh the google health shut down was a lesson for management too Five years ago Alphabet only had a few health projects. Now its making huge bets in the space. Why gt RT MattRosoff In which chrissyfarr draws the connections between Alphabet and the blossoming health tech biz in Silicon Valley jasonwilson V. maddening at the time still is to hear how hard it is to shift data between them jasonwilson thx Jason I remember getting super into it at VB. Mikettownsend Want to find out more Amazon amp FB. Potential there. RT DiabetesMine In diabetes alone Google Apple Samsung IBM Watson even Intel... And yet WeAreNotWaiting MH Its crazy to me that yrs ago so few of the big tech cos were doing anything in health care. Now its my entire beat. RT NBCNightlyNews Apple assembles secret team that is working to develop groundbreaking diabetes treatment.joefryer reports. RT JohnCarreyrou Theranos agrees not to operate blood lab for two years via WSJ JohnTorousMD CNBCtech yeah probably Im looking for guinea pig column ideas for CNBCtech If youve got a safe consumer health product send ideas via DM. RT MattRosoff Heres your f preview from johnshinal .bballinger on the health sensors most alluring for big tech companies Noninvasive continuous glucose ECG Relative blood pressure RT megtirrell Theranos agrees to pay K in settlement with CMS affirms exit of clinical lab business for years RT CNBC Meet the man who makes Facebooks machines think When youre trying to reach that last key person for a story... callmeback impatient gah erikrtn yep but interesting still if a techsavvy crowd have qualms Re the poll I just shared I think about this a lot. But as danielkraft points out we already share location data in exchange for Maps. How do you feel about sharing your health data with tech companies AdamSinger StuartBlitz daviesbj Are all these docs interested in analytics Goog DrStarryEyes Good point RT JeffreyLowMD chrissyfarr My desire for scrub style is eclipsed by the convenience of hospital laundry when a patient throws up on you Just heard about another startup selling fashionable medical scrubsDocs do you need this RT ethanjweiss chrissyfarr eramirez verge ProofPilot One of the promises of using smartphoneswatches for research is they are alway RT eramirez ProofPilot chrissyfarr verge ethanjweiss actigraph Take for instance Fitbit. Launch in no published research us eramirez verge ProofPilot ethanjweiss enough for companies of that size to pay attention verge is there a big business opp. here ProofPilot ethanjweiss eramirez Samsung now Alphabet has a smartwatch for medical research purposes only Hardest thing Ive had to do so far careerwise prepare and memorize a minute talk RT davidvivero Couldnt agree more. Too often healthcare sells new layers of complexity to patch up old complexity. Over and over again. Love this from American Sickness on healthtech that adds another layer of complexity to serve investors before p RT rebleber Im seeing outlets finally decide to staff up on climate change reporters. Buzzfeed is hiring. A freelance piece I wrote last month on new learnings about genetics amp eating disorders RT onedroptoday Diabetes is a runaway freight train. jeffdachis on Apples decision to further diabetes research .ycombinator is testing universal health care by giving free primary care to a village in Africa says sama AustinHeap sama NellieBowles hannahkuchler and I were confused .sama To be clear so far a lot of experiments amp research annewellpepper sama Yep RT annewellpepper chrissyfarr sama In other countries thats known as the federal government .sama on being a survivalist Theres things that matter in the world... And then theres my weird hobbiesanyone else doing this YCs sama wants to fund tech startups that will do nuclear fusion start a city get universal basic income... siliconvalleythinking RT karaswisher You seem kind of bored in your job is what sama says to techies over dinner to convince them to run for California gove .sama at cwclub Theres a new massive company to be built in every vertical with machine learning e.g. in radiology farming RT CNBC Apples potential glucose monitor would be better if used in AirPodsnot the Apple Watch says VC dougclinton RT CNBC The payoff would be huge if Apple or Alphabet solved this really tough diabetes problem .CNBC asked health experts weigh in Apples opportunity in diabetestechThis is really tough stuff RT StefanSiebert That is why I keep telling our medical students to learn coding now. Dexcoms response to the AAPL news no surprises RT vgul To be clear. Apple is not spending a B to change lives of DM patients. It is spending B to revive failing watch businessdi .jeffdachis shoot me a message Trying to reach you for a CNBC story. Hearing this a lot from Silicon Valley cos I cover Folks who understand both medicine and machine learning are SO in demand talentwars Getting all the cynicism today about whether noninvasive glucose is even possible. A lot of hell nos. We shall see. JohnNosta TODAYshow thanks John RT CASottile Its not just counting steps and measuring heart rate Apple is now taking on diabetes. Reporting by joefryer amp chrissyfar Spoke on TODAYshow about Apples secret team working on glucose sensingtech grimesa thanks Ann Would love to come down and visit soon My first report on the big tech firms amp glucose sensing from back in . Since then lots of developments Silicon Valley loves its Star Trek references lostonme Ill be on at .am tomorrow CASottile hope so chrissyfarr thank you CASottile ethanjweiss lol other way round RT joshuamcclure Pretty clear Apple was going medical with HealthKit and acquisition of Gliimpse. Diabetes has established wearables. htt Late night TODAY show recording in the CNBC studio. Did my own makeup so of course got mascara goop in my eye. JakeKushnerMD dexcom SteveKopack CNBC Minimally invasive is what existing players offer. Noninvasive is the holy grail. JakeKushnerMD dexcom SteveKopack CNBC minimally vs non invasive RT Reuters Apple hires secret team for treating diabetes CNBC StuartBlitz sounds cheap JPrendergass diabetestech for monitoring youre right. bdjauthor CNBC To biotech reporters hell yes RT jyarow Apple secretly working on glucose monitoring for diabetes big chrissyfarr scoop Note Alphabet is working in the same space glucose monitoring but with a different approach. AAPL RT strngwys I bought my mom an Apple Watch to help track her diabetes. This would be huge if it happens RT CNBC Apple has a secret team working on the holy grail for treating diabetes SCOOP Apple has a secret team in Palo Alto working on the holy grail for treating diabetes tip techmeme eperlste Sooooooooo many. Get ready for crazy digital health valuations to come under control amp funding for lowquality startups to dry up Another tech VC in health care. CRVs George Zacharys thesis is deep insight bioengineering lindaavey WIRED AnnaIntegrated So you had met with them but didnt expect any sort of regulatory oversight lindaavey WIRED AnnaIntegrated Say more RT lindaavey How andMe Won Back the Right to Foretell Your Diseases via WIRED AnnaIntegrated I have one bone RT lindaavey .WIRED AnnaIntegrated Kathy Hibbs comment isnt correct that we didnt expect the FDA to regulate us. RT GarryChoy Even doctors are getting priced out of San Franciscos housing market Business Insider jdudley I need like at this point after looking at wholesale drug prices dallenallred sure Were building a tech team on digital RT statnews Are black pastors key to getting more AfricanAmericans into clinical trials RT MishCastillo Google Glass isnt dead via chrissyfarr MattRosoff johnshinal CNBC CNBCtech Welcome to my new office mate johnshinal RT MattRosoff Excited to welcome johnshinal to the CNBC CNBCtech team in San Francisco Hell be joining us to cover GOOG FB and mor Patrick SoonShiong is the first doctor that President Trump is known to have met with by RT nikillinit chrissyfarr welcome to the world of two way advocates with PBMs being the worst offenders Ive been learning about the PBM space. Just wow... ashokaraj Suggest asking ianshakil if you want deeper insight into the payment model RT CBSNews Rep. Tom Marino expected to step down from seat to join Trump administration as drug czar sources tell CBS News ashokaraj all the medical scribes Another story on digital therapeutics this time to highlight Virta Health in this case aiming to replace meds Would love to see this FaceGene app in action. Have any physicians out there used it RT JPManga Scoop Fitbits new smartwatch has been plagued by production mishaps Tip techmeme My dive into smart glasses including Google Glass for enterprises like health and manufacturing RT MattRosoff You probably thought Google Glass was dead but chrissyfarr reports its quietly becoming a real biz for Google RT antonioregalado Theres a problem with deep learning even its creators cant explain how it works via willlknight naveen united Its happening to patients all the time but metaphorically RT naveen .United beating up and dragging a doctor is a pretty good metaphor for whats happening to the US healthcare system Need a HIPAA expert. DM me RT oliviasolon Anyone else terrified that the united passenger was removed according to the orders of a piece of software years ago no cannabisrelated conference invitations or pitches. Now at least one per week. SEC Some financial news sites published contributed articles written by people paid to promote biotech stocks. brlindsay dmaccannell Just no one on the team who can deal with communications jayparkinson Typically I end up speaking to a sales person Theres nothing more humbling than the experience of coldcalling companies.Who are you again Can you spell that more hold music.. The first scientific paper from Sean Parkers Parker Institute which focuses on cancer immunotherapy research RT Color This week on Sequenced vkhosla sits down with chrissyfarr to discuss how tech will reinvent healthcare. Tune in Heard FDAs Tom Price caused a stir when he didnt show at Health Evolution Summit a big gathering of health CEOs last wk due to weather RT danielkraft Digiceuticals amp digital therapeutics Can software improve a persons health as much as a drug By chrissyfarr https DoctorV alisonmdarcy Bravo alisonmdarcy Thanks qhardy it an either or or both depending on your digiceutical RT CNBCtech Every tech IPO filing uses the same word to describe Silicon Valley hiring intense RT eliowa Its not just NIH. Fear hurting CDC AHRQ too. Grants not being written or submitted. Privatepublic partnerships on hold https This is a super interesting argument re drugs vs. digital therapeutics RT CNBC Heres why one tech investor thinks some doctors will be obsolete in five years RT QualcommLife Do you trust your smartphone to replace traditional medicine chrissyfarr explores the rise of digital therapeutics http The headline says it all RT MattMHunter Good stuff by chrissyfarr Vinod Khosla tells me that radiologists will be replaced by algorithms in yrs. Radiologists disagree. RT obviousvc Transformative venturebacked businesses like RecursionPharma RecursionChris rely on NIH levynew naveen lol An indepth look at an effort to mine the genetic makeup of Iceland by megtirrell naveen bad megtirrell antonioregalado Yep. How was your Iceland trip naveen now youll only find me in CNBC. Im back at taking vacations. Wrote a freelance piece last week about whether digital therapeutics are a real thing. Can they replace a pill Fascinating view from radiologist GarryChoy Our field is the Silicon Valley of medicine because of all the AImachine learning tools. RT CNBC Fear of Trumps proposed budget cuts is already hurting medical innovation First story with levynews about Trumps proposed budget cuts to NIH already having an impact chelseaamaral CNBC thanks RT matthewherper Former FDA chief Margaret Hamburg says Scott Gottlieb will have a steep learning curve paywal Any radiologists out there Need a comment on deadline. DM me. RT ReutersHealth Medtronic recalls devices used to manage fluid buildup in the brain oliviacelee megtirrell Yep Im on team digital RT RockHealth Big andMe news FDAapproval means consumers can get genetic health risk reports directlyno prescription needed. https KennethBaer annewoj sabahoney GINA still applies but loophole is life insurance longterm care disability aexm then again if directly asked lying to an insurer could mean big trouble aexm This is direct to consumer so wouldnt necessarily end up on a medical record that an insurer could access .annewoj tells me that APOE was the number one customer request. cc sabahoney RT CNBC Alphabetbacked DNA testing company andMe is back in business andMe is now testing for Parkinsons Alzheimers amp other disease risks which could mean a boon for kit sales StatGenDan whats your best email Looking to interview you for a CNBC story RT stephaniemlee Sidewalk Labs Alphabets city startup is hiring a chief health officer and head of community health nikillinit yep We have not surpassed hybrid loop except in DIY circles nikillinit I meant more for the tech cos theres a lot of stuff that we are on the brink of RT StatGenDan Apparently none of a set of wellscored training grants was funded by NIH this round due to fear of anticipated funding cut RT DrSidMukherjee An algorithm can solve a case. But it cannot build a case. Is the challenge in medicine solving OR building cases htt brooksjordan My former colleague said it best Its becoming very clear that diabetes sensors algorithms apps is the next frontier in healthtech. Some biotech amp health startups will struggle to match the salary that an established company like Alphabet can offer RT alex IBM Watson A PR machine so effective it will next save the world. First story for CNBC on Alphabet cos Verily Calico Sidewalk Labs hiring in health life sciences RT kartikananth chrissyfarr VahabzadehMD The body is much more complex than code Pandoras box if not done carefully and with consult RT mcsassymd If everyone was required to work for a month in an ICU I think we would decrease health care spending Biotechhealth startups have you been affected by NIH budget cuts amp general uncertainty DM me. benparr MattRosoff CNBC thanks Ben davidlee Thank you Hope to see you soon. Super interesting that Google Ventures invested in both Grail amp Freenome two companies w very similar missions. liquidbiopsies FDA isnt designed to be a mobile health watchdog. It doesnt have the resources for that. qhardy kristenvbrown no wonder press releases havent made any sense for years RT kristenvbrown It is amazing how easy the language in older scientific papers is to read. A far cry from jagonlaced science today. htt Interesting to see tech VCs take an interest in agriculture. Just noticed this investment from az for e.g. gt RT hjsoch Plan to Cut Funding for Biomedical Research Hits Opposition in Congress via nytimes ASlavitt CNBC MattRosoff levynews jyarow thx Lets catch up soon Ill DM nxpatel I noted that too. RT nxpatel chrissyfarr funny how the author conveniently left out any mention of nonspecific binding and unintended unpredictable medi ethanjweiss CNBCtech thought I told you. Darn. Lets celebrate soon Maybe Im cynical but getting programmers excited about powerful new biohacking tools kinda freaks me out RT antonioregalado Y Combinators take on CRISPR gene drives. Its just code folks Please you millennial hoodies part of me begs pl RT dylanlscott so after two hours of frantic tweeting something is definitely happening with AHCAit could be only death rattlesit c crauber CNBCtech Thx Chris chasedave Thx Dave yoda talkingbiznews CNBC thx berthacoombs MattRosoff levynews jyarow CNBC Thanks Would be fab to catch up by phone in the next few weeks. DoctorV FarzadMD thx SashaDamouni talkingbiznews CNBC NadiaSpeaks Ditto Hope you ladies are well. NadiaSpeaks SashaDamouni let GreeterDan also lets catch up soon GreeterDan thx KellyKane Harrit We met and discovered a major life overlap. Thx RealMParamore Keep me posted DShaywitz mdweinberg Hah lunch soon RealMParamore Better I hope unitystoakes CNBC Thx Lets get lunch when youre next in town JohnNosta Thanks John mdweinberg DShaywitz Thx Lets get lunch soon amp catch up FarzadMD thanks Let me know when youre next in town RT talkingbiznews .chrissyfarr hired by CNBC to cover tech biotech stephenkraus MattRosoff levynews jyarow CNBC Thanks Come see office crazy view when youre next in SF. .MattRosoff levynews jyarow CNBC reach me Christina.farratnbcunidotcom .MattRosoff levynews jyarow CNBC A wonderful yearandahalf at fastcompany will miss the amazing team over there My beat at CNBCtech will stay the same Healthtech biotech amp some other stuff. RT MattRosoff Very delighted to welcome chrissyfarr to the team at CNBC CNBCtech Shell be helping us on biotech health tech and mo Some personal news folks... Super excited to work mattrosoff levynews jyarow amp others at team CNBC RT HealthEugene The Genetic Secrets of the Worlds Greatest Free Diver via NEOdotLIFE cant wait for Part genomics DNA https RT xeni its still kind of brutal being female and having opinions and working online RT bobkocher Infuriating. Great peice. Those Indecipherable Medical Bills Theyre One Reason Health Care Costs So Much. atkevine perspective Doooo ittttt..... In the s most doctors wouldnt disclose a cancer diagnosis to a patient. Weve evolved but not all the way. Im working on a TedX talk about patient rights amp medical paternalism so expect some random tweets on the topic chrissyfarr Link to article Fascinating argument that the ancient Greek docs were actually quite honest with their patients. Hippocrates is a RT CatchTheBaby Good for himZara founder to spend million on breast cancerscreening for Spanish hospitals Reuters RT rachaelmyrow What kind of jerk flies a drone over Monterey beaches during seal mating season via KQEDscienc RT nikillinit This DrSidMukherjee piece about AI healthcare is beautifully written highly recommend reading it Super anecdotal but pharma companies seem much more comfortable talking about digital health versus digital therapeutics. Vacation bound. Consider this my Twitter out of office. RT JohnTorousMD Wonder what this will really be Elon Musk launches Neuralink venture to merge the human brain w AI RT AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr lets celebrate fact that ANY evaluation was done. Hope other digitalhealth cos test small w QI pivot Not surprising medication reminders from an app are super ineffective as assumes patients are simply forgetful RT SteveSteinhubl All the makings for transforming eye care via digital med. Who will put it all together amp http RT davidvivero chrissyfarr always thought that was BS too. Consumers pay for very few tech products and multiB companies still thrive w Want to call BS on this idea that patientsconsumers dont pay for health care. Its true though that we dont pay for crappy products. ericdickinger A love story between two Silicon Valley VCs who are secretly vampires and suck the blood of wouldbe founders chrissyfarr Although I will say they spend an ungodly amount of on stuff that is so far from scientifically proven Boo to live forever headlines. Most longevity folks in SV want to live better for longer not be a vampire. RT demccaffrey The God Pill via newyorker jayparkinson Fing impossible chrissyfarr Its often so challenging for startups to serve patients first amp foremost and make a biz model around it Keep thinking about a meeting I had w Remedy a startup that wants to help patients fight medical bills. Biggest problem Access to the data RT UpshotNYT Now that Obamacare has survived its first repeal effort whats the GOPs next move ESEntrepreneur SarahKerruish ill be here. What are your dates LindaPMD Would actually love to share with you the draft at some point to get your thoughts... LindaPMD A talk Im working on about top down vs. bottom up medicine. vkhosla Color Podcast will be live in a month. Ill share soon Interviewed vkhosla for Color podcastPredictionsInnovators in digital health will come from techRadiologists will be obsolete in yrs Without Googling it roughly what of Americans were affected by premium increases because of the Affordable Care Act Health care is about the patients. Not the executives the politics or the money. And the patients werent winning last time I checked... RT justinshanes Meanwhile at todays meeting on feline healthcare... RT AliceOllstein I asked Sen. Roberts if he supports scrapping Essential Health Benefits. I wouldnt want to lose my mammograms he sna DrShlain ethanjweiss VahabzadehMD see survey results RT sxbegle The moment when Wall Street decided AHCA was going down to defeat RT FastCompany Heres what defunding Planned Parenthood would actually look like s Really I cant imagine that youre alone. Not good. While were on the topic of selfdiagnosis I totally have this. Suggests a whole lot of online symptom searching cc RockHealth chrissyfarr Does this freak you out ethanjweiss DrShlain VahabzadehMD Interesting phames Digital interventions face a greater burden of proof than pharma bc the data is there e.g. realworld outcomes data katmcdavitt say what AmbarBh Definitely trying it next. .AmbarBh and colleagues actually tried out a ketogenic diet for weeks as part of due diligence. Thats dedication. guineapig ethanbechtel grr I hate that one. ethanbechtel that is frustrating My aunt had a similar issue and it took a decade for her to find out it was a mold allergy ethanbechtel you saw a doc Hope youre ok sandeep imkialikethecar when they listenin to call chaperoning brianreid I email about that matthewherper yes imkialikethecar you can say no to staffing ahead of time. I do and its rare that theyll cancel the interview SIRFReport yes PR folks listening in and introducing the call Journalists do you agree to these things staffed calls staffed meetings background convos but you can use quotes we agree to emilylmullin Im a healthtech reporter and own no trackers either. I get into it for a while and then give up. emilylmullin Woah that suggests we should err on side of caution. Although I desperately try to avoid ER. ethanjweiss Ah the typical doctors advice. jgreid Death by WebMD RT jgreid chrissyfarr Does Selfdiagnose wfatal disease cry self to sleep wake up in a panic plan funeral. count as Diagnose myse MattRosoff Ive definitely diagnosed myself in the past after docs got it wrong. We know ourselves to some extent When you start feeling unwell how far do you usually go as a patient before you see a doctor I... Fascinating to see so many folks say its marketing RT bballinger chrissyfarr Surprised so many think its just marketing We do need a term for evidencebased behavior change delivered vi PsycleDoc lol New twit pic amp first headshot ever by chrismichel qhardy alas I do jayparkinson A marketing term doesnt work for you What is a digital therapeutic jenholmes throwback .Color launched a foundation and research initiative to help fund students amp scientists conduct genomics research Heart and thoughts are with home today. londonattack DBSweeney never actually reviewing RT guardian This is what we know as confirmed so far about the attack in London aprilolanoff daveclarkeIV I did it when I was an intern at a PR agency. Told to followup again amp again too i.e. hit reply and resend. Interviewed jhuber at DHCEOSUMMIT. Main takeawaysRaising B even from pharma is hard will go to huge clinical trial w K ppl samwhitmore obfuscation in health care is actually dangerous samwhitmore good reminder. I will always fight for plain English. Even if it means asking what does that mean again and again. Another thing Media lists are actually dehumanizing. And I mean that literally given that the emails often start with dear journalist. inafried Hire an agency to tell me about it via their media list. samwhitmore gah. When did we stop communicating in plain English RT kcm DavidMRolf chrissyfarr FastCompany I am one. Preexisting condition meant the ACA let me work on what I wanted to. Journalists can smell marketing language from a mile away. Heres a Wednesday plea for authenticity. RT DavidMRolf Will wouldbe founders stay in corporate jobs if they cant get insurance w ACA by chrissyfarr Journalists must balance the good of the companys mission against the failings of a flawed leader says LizSegran RT RockHealth Discussing the GrailBio birth story and the future of cancer detection at our fireside chat with jhuber amp chrissyfarr RT chrismichel People I admire Journalist chrissyfarr chrismichel great pic Just realized I have more friends who became journalists from my college paper than from journalism grad school A report found that patients were not told how their data would be used by Googles DeepMind. RT zaidirad chrissyfarr Saved leg of patient with acute clots blocking arterial flow by diagnosing the CT findings on my iPad and guidin A refresh to Apples healthcare pages specifically mentioning iOS in hospitals and remote patient monitoring halhod I think so. I cover tech from the vantage of the industries it is changing not head on BuzzFeedNews future for newsrooms I hope a tech reporter on every other desk health transportation education politics etc Techmeme doesnt cover medical tech or any other niche tech spheres. not niche every big tech co is in health JPrendergass KShoieb Apple FastCompany thanks Big complement RT EmilyFPeters Medicaids Data Gets an InternetEra Makeover Who else has a growing love affair w healthinform RT EricHolthaus Gentle reminder The worlds current biggest crisism people at risk of famineis linked to the centurys biggest crisi RT lenacheng apple tackles not just healthcare but enterprise healthcare. And whats more complicated than that RT vgul chrissyfarr looked into the throat of a child check postsurgical scar for infection diagnose conjunctivitis rosenthal FastCompany JennyAGold KHNews Medium hi Jenny amp Andrew kartikananth from patients Should have specified for work ethanjweiss yep ericdickinger hah nice but I cant handle Star Trek references in medtech. Doctors what are some of the craziestcoolest things youve been able to do remotely with only a smartphone or laptop Something I havent thought about enough evolution of cameras in smartphones for remote diagnosis e.g. back of the throat selfie. RT jakemcclure Mr. James the feeling is mutual. EBMmobileFirst healthcare Medium appreciate the honesty here from GabeOtte RT GabeOtte I was insecure about not finishing my PhD and afraid I needed credentials to solve big problems. heralcye FastCompany thank you In a splashy digital health announcement from Samsung. Then silence. What happened thesullivan has the scoop RT AislingMcDL Its official SeemaCMS is the new administrator of CMS. Let her know what you think of Medicare Medicaid and the Marke RT wittinkm opportunity to engage patients in their health iPads can be used for more than surveys and screening. patientchoice patie RT fauldsca I use iPads in my exam rooms for teachingeducation. Look forward to next steps for scales update demographics MED reconcil JarredColli AmericanAir ReferencePlease would be proud RT thesullivan Heres how Apple Watch created then destroyed Samsungs health smartwatch RT KShoieb .chrissyfarr has a fascinating deep dive into apples pronged foray into health hospitals athome research RT doctamilla Had a great time reviewing our use of Apple products at CedarsSinai with chrissyfarr from FastCompany How is Apple moving into health care iPads in every hospital for starters. My latest longread TomAtCrosswalk lol RT thespinmd chrissyfarr Ive found execs enjoy journos who can hold a debate with them. Smarter is better. Balanced has more cred than Warning signs for biotech startups lack of biotech investors in the round lack of biotech reporters covering lack of data eperlste antonioregalado BuzzFeedNews me neither but many of the quotes surprised me for the relative frankness antonioregalado BuzzFeedNews yep makes sense. Altho lukebiotech does point out that some PhDs do dropout. Bigger prob is the misleading. eperlste antonioregalado BuzzFeedNews citing the quotes in the story but yet totally antonioregalado BuzzFeedNews interesting to see some biotech investors take the opposite stance e.g. Blake GV RT nitashatiku stephaniemlee Does This Biotech CEO Have A PhD The Answer Is No. But He Did Leave School Under A Cloud dariustahir ddiamond yep I think the smart ones are always appreciated even if they make PR uncomfortable at times RT alohaj Good to hear but not surprising. Criticism usually comes from asking the tough questions and we should all want those. https RT whitneyricketts chrissyfarr often the press helpfully points out issues head of comms has raisedis raising internally amp highlights dariustahir Probably shouldnt but was super interesting that they didnt name any reporters who write puff pieces chrissyfarr This person liked the puff pieces but didnt respect the reporters as much I asked a former head of comms at a big tech co to name reporters they respected. All wrote critically at times but were fair. Interesting. healthguru HealthcareBorg trust me I know davisliumd KPShare I could have used that. CD got scratched in the transport process RT FastCompany This new technology uses your phone to track your heart health RT AtulGawande Trumps budget proposes to absolutely devastate American preeminence in science NIH DOE Science B EPA http RT BrianBergstein Im pleased to be helping janemetcalfe with her new publication st story by abschaffer ht RT GilmerHealthLaw I still use paper. A doctor once told me she wasnt even sure she had a CD drive anymore. And many confused still by U cwhogg yep thats not the part I disagree with SimonGraindorge simonbayly soychemist Gizmodo Sure but this company is developing minimally invasive not non invasive. SimonGraindorge simonbayly soychemist Gizmodo Totally. simonbayly soychemist Gizmodo Its really too soon to say. Plus in consumer usecase it wouldnt just be glucose in isolation. Wow I completely disagree with this assessment gt ht soychemist for raising it to my attention AliveCor announced new today. Our video on patients tracking their heart health on mobile heart health EKG RT ZDoggMD If clicks are joy ordering a single med in an EHR equals multiple orgasms. eramirez FastCompany thank you RT AliceParkNY Why are healthy people wearing diabetes devices chrissyfarr good news is that about of my followers are trying to fix this very problem RT jeanlucneptune chrissyfarr DavidPittman Hope it boots up when the doctor plugs it into hisher IBM PS jeanlucneptune DavidPittman Eagleeyed tweeters DavidPittman my fault. Carried it in my bag for a week I write so much about the future of medicine. But sanity check. In heres how Im transporting my health data. RT KQEDForum Working from home whats great What stinks Whats been embarrassing Tell us about your experience You can DM or email RT RockHealth .AliveCor unveils AI stroke prevention platform paired with mobile tracking and personalized heart profiles Super excited for my amazing friend janemetcalfe lt follow for smart sciencehealth coverage RT beLaurie Was just having this convo about the nuance and unspoken shame associated in tech with showing vulnerability as a POC in tech RT DavidCookeMD chrissyfarr Not just limited to tech... sarahfrier FastCompany thx for sharing RT sarahfrier Thing people dont talk about Mental health implications of being minority in tech. chrissyfarr asks a therapist https BradMcCarty but important to be aware of BradMcCarty its hard One client was told by colleagues that she was articulate for a black person RT laurahelmuth Trump proposes massive cuts to scientific and medical research across the federal government. By JoelAchenbach chrissyfarr cc chepm RT FastCompany What its like to be a therapist for minority tech workers Has anyone in SF ever spoken at TED amp would be willing to share advice over coffee My treat. SwissGator FastCompany wegohealth thx link here RT KQED Have you been on edge since the election Now theres new diagnosis PostElection Stress Disorder https RT nickisnpdx register today for special access to Nucleus group janemetcalfes cofounder WIRED new media company RT virginiahughes These Women Were Blinded By Stem Cell Injections Into Their Eyeballs via paldhous RT shannonmstirone Writing is hard. dmaccannell founders need to stop doing that its so lame rule of biotech avoid terms like will change everything scooperpr hope not chrissyfarr suppose its better than let me tell you about my startup Just told someone that Im a journalist. The response have you been shot at yet RT jayparkinson VC is a much needed tool in the toolset of innovation. But there is no allpurpose tool. Using a instead of a can do m RT JohnTorousMD How digitalhealth mentalhealth may intersect in the wrong way Happy to be quoted in this article by chrissyfarr http RT techreview Constant easy access to doctors through telemedicine apps could be amplifying anxieties about health RT jeanlucneptune .chrissyfarr is en fuego today with not one but two great digital health pieces amp https Getting a lot of messages from folks today who privately agree with jayparkinson RT wilbanks Imagine if all tech cos had to prove their shit was secureprivate that they didnt hurt their users and couldnt overstat cch jayparkinson Agree thx to Jay for sharing his story. More healthtech founders should do the same. RT lisagualtieri Cyberchondriacs a population that is not well characterized and who can hide behind siloed data halletecco jayparkinson abhasvc quartethealth RockHealth chasedave AmbarBh bryce Made me think of your death by pilot oped. This is really disturbing. my piece last year on genetic discrimination loopholes RT JayatQuartet Startups will be better off if they favor VC firms with health experts on the team. FastCompany chrissyfarr RT chasedave Another insightful chrissyfarr piece highlighting how VC funding is a false god. Great fit for some. Not for most. Hats off Why do so many of the recent scandals in tech involve healthtech startups Unrealistic expectations re growth. RT drnelk Googles. Discovers anxiety increases risk of heart problems.Heart races.Feels palpitations. Checks webMD. LOGS OFF INTE Could your doctor app amplify your health anxieties telemedicine RT jayparkinson In July Sherpaa went from a VCfunded co to a profitable independent co. Ive been mum but heres the story. RT halletecco News flash Highly regulated healthcare startups dont grow at internetcompany pace RT matthewherper Stunning gap Canadians with cystic fibrosis outlive Americans by a decade via statnews RT lizgannes On dB A medical students quest to address her countrys breast cancer mortality rates chrissyfarr GParkinsonhttps Challenge with telehealth Lack of integration with the existing care system amp overutilization by city dwellers. RT fordvox the genetic testing bill is expected to folded into a second ACArelated measure containing a grabbag of provisions https RT cnntech Who says science and art cant join forces RT nytimes songs that tell us where music is going from nytmag RT natashaloder The evolving ecosystem of digitalhealth an introduction RT AdamHSays Climate change is wsjim GoodRx I have insurance shouldnt need to chrissyfarr its all so much worse when you know how the systems works in the backend RT ToasterPastry Google knows me. Amazon knows me. So does the CIA FBI and NSA. But my doctor cant get medical records from the other Had to pay a fortune for a prescription bc insurances system was down amp they didnt know price. Pharmacist to meWelcome to America. RT hillcharlotte Fascinating exploration of this question why dont we combine medical and dental care RT sarahkliff AHCA is really bad news for Alaska huge cuts to tax credits because they arent adjusted to geography. Asked for my medical images Admin in radiology seemed confused Now waiting for them to burn me a CD Had to happen in person noteasy reenapande hah Psych study that needs to happenHow strongly do you feel that the ACA is badExplain the ACA.Again how strongly do you feel... RT mrbellis Youve already lost your reader if you start your article by talking about yourselfyour company not the thing they clicked Great chatting with lizgannes about this story love adding audio components to web stories. RT SopanDeb Some great work by the NYT graphics team here shows premium increases cited by GOP hit only percent of Americans RT ejwillingham How many iPhones do you spend on healthcare each year Ex Hospital birth w great insurance iPhones RT bobjherman Humanas CEO made M last year. Bonuses were based on a profit measure that excluded Obamacare losses. RT FastCompany These are women with young children dying in their prime but its common in Trinidad. WomensDay RT scottbix The chief medical officer of Medicaid just came out against the AHCA. RT JohnKasich Gov. John Kasich on repeal and replacement of Obamacare naveen I was going to go with yes unless someone could give me a super digestible reason Q. Should I be using the terms digital health and health technology interchangeably I was in a meeting talking health policyA woman at the next table passes out EMTs arriveShes OKOur next worry Hope she can pay vmocherla Thats a tough one as I dont really think about things that way mdweinberg Good point. Fascinating q posed on AHCJ thread Should media call the AHCA Trumpcare Or are these nicknames flawed given outcome of obamacare Google Cloud acquires Kaggle A Kaggle usecase in health care machinelearning health RT KatieS Remarkable story of GParkinson told by chrissyfarr. internationalwomensday beatcancer RT CMBeavers She was a medical student taking on the burden of a country. Inspiring important story by chrissyfarr My latest How this medical student brought genetic testing to women in Trinidad and Tobago breastcancer BRCA Just learned that some people are using telemedicine apps while driving. Weird to care about health while doing something so unsafe. Least favorite funding rounds embargoed product news bland company profiles that dont enhance understanding or touch readers My favorite stories Ones that lead with human experiences ideally some news a big juicy ethical question. health journalism andrewintech mskaff nickisnpdx more like ethical questions mskaff nickisnpdx Im not getting much luck so far. Kind of stories that readers like amp companies do not. RT nickisnpdx enjoying a beautiful rainy day in pdx then chrissyfarr calls re the weirdest healthcare story ever RT KennethBaer Why We Cant Look Away From Our Screens via nytimes RT edbott If you are years old and not rich you get completely screwed by the Republican healthcare plan. RT nanopore . FastCompany chrissyfarr finds out about how mobile DNA sequencing could be used in disease or food outbreaks RT JasonKander Watching the ACA debate its refreshing that even w total GOP control of govt its hard to get rid of something thats RT AmolUtrankar chrissyfarr It could be worse you could be a provider and have to spend hoursday engaging with an EMR .. Need to talk to founders of telemedicine apps for a story. DM me. Met with a tech exec who spent a few weeks looking at EMRs its like software from the late s and s Me always RT sarahkliff Have I got a word American Health Care Act explainer for you. RT sahilkapur Obamacare raised taxes on the rich to fund health care for lowerincome people.GOP plan cuts taxes on the rich to cut hel LindaPMD some still do although patients are increasingly competing for attention with computers Another group that needs to learn good penmanship Doctors. chrismichel davemorin Now we have to be super careful to never share the name of this coffee shop matthewhughes chrismichel Agree hes a talent Fun and unexpected to get photographed today by chrismichel while working at my favorite coffee shop. In that mo RT summanrafia Portable DNA sequencing machine bringing better healthcare in rural areas DNA betterhealthcare DNAsequencing RT RichDuszak Healthcare isnt about radical disruption its about slow evolution. chrissyfarr Fascinating explanation of why we humans tend to dismiss facts that dont support are views. RT JohnNosta The Worlds Smallest DNA Reader Could Prevent Major Outbreaks. digitalhealth chrissyfarr BioMath labchic My only regret Leather pants in a scientific lab. Our latest video segment on how DNA sequencing will change how we diagnose infectious diseases feat oxfordnanopore I asked illumina if it will step up lobbying. fdesouza says a goal is to close the genetic discrimination loophole CallieGabbert well... could argue public has a right to know about v high risk of certain conditions Cascadia danielkraft chasedave its worse Working on a story that has made me feel so so awkward about asking for comment. Embarrassed for humanity. RT ahier After mapping the genome now JCVenter wants to decode deathgenetics longevity healthnucleusvia Forbes vinaybhargava Couldnt agree more RT vinaybhargava The valley needs to get over its fear of humans in the delivery of tech then it can play in public health. Hard to com RT FarzadMD Would also be nice to see some SV billionaires plow that into public health not hospital pavilions. Whos this generations Silicon Valley meet public health thoughtful piece by vanessamason marquesafinch ljpr illumina its the queen in the future mcgd illumina a very posh hat Happy Friday. Heres a pic courtesy of illumina of the queen with a DNA sequencing machine. science chrissyfarr cc fdesouza Do you support the idea that presidents and other world leaders should get their genomes sequenced dna Yep Im in SFs biotech hub RT ASlavitt Americans need to know that buried in ACA repeal is secret plan permanently reduce Medicaid.Needs sunlight. RT modrnhealthcr BREAKING New GOP bill to replace Obamacare is leaked Patrick Kennedy on pushing for mental health parity We can really take a page from the Civil Rights struggle. RT AstronautAbby Why We Need Scientists On Social Media Now More Than Ever RT nxthompson The cent device made of paper and string that could be great for health care. JonathanBush amazonbooks good allegory for the EHR rmandal so many Jonathan Bush from athenahealth on slowness of health vs. tech Were the fastest dinosaur... Or the oldest most arthritic mammal. imkialikethecar Fo sho. But probably esp. true in that sector bc its so nascent in its tech adoption I asked health VCs about their biggest pet peeve at DigitalMedTech Top answer Founders pitching a solution that doesnt address a need. Is there a great feed or individual I should follow for history of medicine nuggets RT APHealthScience Take a tour of the London lab of Alexander Fleming whose penicillin mold recently sold at auction. RT APHealthScience Were hiring Are you a video journalist visual producer or multimedia producer interested in health amp science https RT ddiamond My entire Twitter feed people mocking todays health bill treasure hunt. RT JennyAGold Ok is this bill search a publicity stunt Or are they literally searching for a missing bill I am confuseddont understa RT ashleyfeinberg I have the House Obamacare bill its yours if you can answer my riddles three RandPaul JohnNosta akalali Arguable. Id like to see them do a lot more. They rarely talk about HC. RT StephLBaum If anyone is looking for a v knowledgeable healthIT reporter to offer rich analysis and keen insight see nversel RT vgul Where is that In more advanced nations no one calls spreadsheets AI these days. They call it Machine Learning RT PsycleDoc This made me laugh in the NHS we call them dashboards...jacswork RT seanessee also can substitute analytics and population health management Big time fatigue from a panel of health investors with the overused term AI. Its probably a spreadsheet. digitalmed JampJ investor just now The term digital health emphasizes the tech which isnt the hard part. He prefers the term healthtech. kouriskalligas thx RT drstclaire Is there more burden of proof on DigitalHealth entrepreneur asks chrissyfarr YES From the panel MedTechAwards https RT HealthcareWen Packed house at MedTechCon DigitalMedTech StartUpSessions with chrissyfarr amp VCs JohnGardnerVC Alex G Hong Truo Big for Freenome w more to be announced. Big qs data who will pay Will it reduce costs How accurate Video Im featured with my friend jswartz advice from journalists on supporting great journalism RT Marcelace chrissyfarr look out for Amazon building a business supplying hospitals and health care systems. RT PJKbrainhealth I spoke w chrissyfarr FastCompany about the future of mental health in America quartethea RT matthewherper Obamacare startup Oscar lost more than million last year via business RT demccaffrey chrissyfarr Better questiontopic is which are going to enter regulated health space and when Will be the year I p halhod Interesting... RT malayhgandhi chrissyfarr Virtually all horizontal tech firms run a healthcare vertical. Its a huge sector.Also Amazon malayhgandhi Yep plus Alexa will have a lot of health apps. And Amazon is now selling genetic tests via GoodStart. Still early tho. halhod yep youre right. Although how big of a business is health Think of them as generalized AI RampD doing some work with NHS. Tech companies doing stuff in health nowAlphabet Verily CalicoAppleSamsungMicrosoftIntel Qualcomm SalesforceIBMFutureAmazon RT johnupton Wow look at all of these openings for climate journalists at the nytimes. RT quartethealth In case you didnt see FastCompany article featuring PJKbrainhealth amp quartethealth read Lot of fears that patients will get too engaged with docs if given access to data. Reality Most dont have the time Nature vs. nurture... A fascinating listen for the commute home. One danger working with large health systems on pilots is being dragged out in the middle of an ocean amp abandoned My interview with Patrick Kennedy on the future of mental health parity in Trumps America HealthEugene another time HealthEugene nope RT doctamilla Chest Xray on my phone CedarsSinai myfingers mobility Docs can view medical images from an iPhone Plus a benefit of a larger screen. Getting a tech tour CedarsSinai RT FastCompany Why former tech execs are leaving Google and Twitter to start health care companies Journalists always want to talk to folks who are realauthenticno BS. Its so appreciated. Corporate messaging and jargon doesnt fly. RT JasonMillman SCOOP Draft of House repeal billscraps subsidies Medicaid expansionoverhauls Medicaidloosens preex ruleshttps RT annaedney Health insurance CEOs to meet with Trump on Monday. On TheTerminal stilenius yep and massages was another bryce next step. Reporters have to stop seeing funding rounds as news hooks. Public doesnt reli care. This gem of a post from is so prescient. bryce RT ReutersHealth Scientists test deep brain stimulation as potential anorexia therapy mdweinberg Ill dm you mdweinberg in some cases Fascinating to meet with health execs who believe their businesses will do well under Trump but are personallypolitically opposed RT MikeIsaac here is a look inside Ubers Aggressive Unrestrained Workplace Culture. ashleyrgold On the whole tech reporting is sugary sweet. I get calls from PR for even tweeting a negative story. RT trevortimm The NYTimes is getting tips a day through its secure contact page which includes SecureDrop and Signal. When you are out there speaking with the bluster of a typical Silicon Valley entrepreneur try to modulate it. RT DShaywitz Money quote from Color CEO in great chrissyfarr piece on lessons tech folks learn when migrating to health RT FrankSDavid Great reality check for wouldbe medical tech entrepreneurs health care isnt about radical disruption its about slo brianleitten chrisdiede thats a much bigger problem My latest Profiles of tech execs from cos like Google amp Twitter who shifted to health. Spoiler It wasnt easy RT chrisdiede .chrissyfarr As former tech execs walkingtalking at HIMSS most healthcare insiders we met definitely look down on us RT techammer RT RockHealth The move from tech to healthcare is neither fast nor easy. Heres why and how these former tech execs did it mskaff I have actually never gone Getting broadcast reporting tips from a real pro SpencerABC If you had to spend on one of these wellness services what would you choose Revealing. The IBM Watson project cost MD Anderson more than million and yet did not meet its goals The unifying theme of my conversations is about patients. Lots of momentum around open sourceDIY tech open notes datasharing etc. Interview request or or off record. Are you a hypochondriac andor super anxious about being sick despite a clean bill of health DM me. Solovis FastCompany ainsleyoc RT asilverstein Good reminder that companies that dont sit in health sector can be and are health innovators RT theurv Healthcare rally outside Capitol in Sacramento caleg SinglePayer SaveACA RT UpshotNYT Evidence doesnt support the value of wearable fitness devices. kyleserikawa emilylmullin ArthurCaplan yep interesting on both counts. RT emilylmullin Good question. From the research perspective sometimes trials take longer or close altogether because of low recruitment Public reviews of physicians performance are unavoidable and inevitable RT RockHealth A breakdown of FastCompanys Most Innovative Companies in Health who made the list https RT mskaff Power healthcare list HT chrissyfarr. The Most Innovative Companies In Health Check out our video interview with Freenome a biotech startup working on earlystage cancer detection RT charlesornstein Many people are afraid of losing coverage if the ACA is repealed. NotFakeNews vmocherla JerryDurhamPT jeffpbyers yep AI isnt a bandaid to fix HC as DrShlain would say JerryDurhamPT jeffpbyers yes amp using plainSpecific language e.g. We share food recommendations instead of deliver insights JerryDurhamPT jeffpbyers we deliver insights to users could mean anything... its like the term platform JerryDurhamPT jeffpbyers simple ones that explain what something does so even a yo could understand The buzzwords are one big reason why journalists visibly groan a lot at industry conferences himss RT jeffpbyers For anyone keeping score at home here are the HIMSS buzzwords Insights artificial intelligence cognitive analytics. RT MandiBPro How can I a patient be taken seriously as an expert in my own health and healthcare experience Sad that this Q must be Ok heres one Health care isnt about rapid disruption its about slow evolution veteran health IT consultant Ben Rooks Something I look thru notes and think thats a super insightful quote but isnt quite right for a story. Would you want me to share SashaDamouni Happens a lot amp when I look thru my inbox Im like whos that Meetings never happen. Pet peeve People who connect with me and then start ccing all these folks I dont know agencies assts etc.. Signals an indifference. Is it ethical to pay patients to recruit other patients for clinical trials RT ArthurCaplan Having an illness can result in knowledge and connections that have value by chrissyfarr via Fa My latest The sharing economy comes to health care w patients leveraging their networks for feat ArthurCaplan RT pzettler Interesting story by chrissyfarr on patients amp drug cos pts as freelance experts amp research recruiters. RT nickwingfield Gee I wonder why its so hard for the tech industry to attract and retain female engineers RT DavidMRolf Will wouldbe founders stay in corporate jobs if they cant get insurance w ACA by chrissyfarr Couldnt agree more. Patients are NOT consumers DrShlain GreeterDan My ancestors probably were. cch Yes definitely. I reflect back on my journalism ethics amp law class weekly. chrissyfarr on that note if anyone is thinking of going into journalism Im super happy to chat. I really hope that Jschool applications are on the rise this year. RT NPRinskeep A journalist is a citizen. Who informs other citizens as free citizens need. Some are killed doing it. Im grateful to man thekenyeung its cool well take you back thekenyeung I was an enemy of the American people in and thekenyeung youre failing WhitneyMountain chrissyteigen Hi long time no chat. How are you Re Crooked media I do have really bad posture. Excellent feature by jbrooksfoy longreads Fascinating data via CaulfieldTim. Scientists lack confidence with media overall but most are satisfied w cove signe MayoClinic woah.... EbolaPhone mirikramer Reminded of this moment mirikramer THANK YOU RT mirikramer JOURNALISTS ARENT HERE TO BE NICE TO YOU RT amalec Its almost like healthcare startups overhype ability to disrupt a large amp complicated regulated industry. Reporter burnout. matthewherper its no biggie...But literally and figuratively a pain. Today m on duplicate forms MD needed Xrays Xrays a nightmare to get On hold w insurance to find out No sign of disruption RT kristenvbrown chrissyfarr sarahzhang lol apparently DNA tests are what science reporters give their significant others. I think he w RT PaulRogersSJMN A year ago of California was in a drought. Today only is according to NOAA and UDSA kristenvbrown sarahzhang was he into it I gave mine an AncestryDNA test erikrtn yah a patient identifier number would help Makes me every time I go to a doctors office spend m filling out duplicate info on a form amp that takes longer than the appt. itself. sarahzhang TheAtlantic good story. Wrote a feature on Helix too. Itll be interesting to see whether consumers flock to silly vs. medical RT sarahzhang Im telling you this app is going to get developed and whoever does it is going to make a lot of money. A TV series related to my beat that I would totally watch RodrigoATCG FastCompany Scientish RT aaronecarroll Please remember however youd like to reform healthcare there will be tradeoffs. Those who promise you everything are Noooo.....a genetic test that tells you what your superhero superpower is. HT kristenvbrown. kristenvbrown Link Thats insane. RT ethanjweiss Call it what you want but extraordinarily cautious consideration is exactly what we should do amp if not now when https RT toriwhitley As someone who was fortunate and priveleged enough to do unpaid internships in college I definitely agree with this thre RT nataliefoster Why the ACA matters to entrepreneurs by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT NYTHealth Crossing a line many have viewed as ethically inviolable an influential panel has endorsed human gene editing RT mdweinberg Sharp perspective on new Trumpcare rules ACA Seems like a good a time as any to share this Radiolab series on CRISPR feat. carlzimmer doudnalab RT amyharmon So does holder of CRISPR patents now broadinstitute control germline editing antonioregalado smart to mention https RT megtirrell USPTO decision in favor of Broad Institute sending CRISPR stocks flyingEDIT CRSP NTLA SkyGemma paulwrblanchard perfect. Lets set something up RT petersuderman Baby our love is like MACRA Honestly no one understands it but here we are anyway. healthpolicyvalentines RT KBDeSalvo Roses are red Violets are blueAccess to timely actionable dataWill improve health for me and for youhealthpolicyvalenti RT Figure Rosacea is redCyanosis is blueStop using antibioticsWhen treating the flu.healthpolicyvalentines RT ashishkjha Roses are redViolets are blueIll take alternative paymentsAs long as Im bundled with you healthpolicyvalentines SkyGemma paulwrblanchard ditto or next time Im in the U.K. ethanjweiss GabeOtte equinox RT davidvivero .chrissyfarr key is to be a consumer co about health than to be a health care co targeting consumers. Remarkable produ RT modrnhealthcr BREAKING Cigna seeks more than billion in formal termination of Anthem deal chrissyfarr On record is assumed unless stated otherwise BEFOREHAND not after the interview. If helpful On record Info source can be publishedOn background Info used under negotiated termsOff record Info cannot be usedAP RT VinceKuraitis As a generalization and looking in the rearview mirror YES.Outthewindshield foggy but expect at least a few rays Hear this on a weekly basis Direct to consumer health startups will fail because consumers wont pay for health care. Agree PSA No SXSW or HIMSS for me this year. Just drank calories in less than minutes for a story. More to come... RT bethlinas Just ONE of many big questions needing serious thought if ACA is repealed. So who is thinking about this for new healthcare RT Lygeia .jholston chrissyfarr it is also anachronistic that health insurance is often tied to marriage. PsycleDoc true story Looking at Google search term trends for ACAObamacare. Spike in Nov. for qs like What is Obamacare. RT Lygeia Will wouldbe founders stay in corporate jobs if they cant get insurance w ACA by chrissyfarr via PsycleDoc yep expanding our understanding of health amp fitness to include meditation lteytelman Yes it was a sidebar. Was hoping for comments on the story itself but Ill keep in mind for any future lists of any kind. Check out our most innovative companies in health biotech and fitness gt lteytelman Thank you RT omadahealth For the nd time in years FastCompany has named Omada one of the most innovative health companies in the world https RT FastCompany Announcing the Worlds Most Innovative Companiesfrom Snap to Glossier FCMostInnovative Need an expert on deadline who understands how patient influencersactivists are leveraged by pharma. DM or cfarrfastcompany.com RT nicklegendre chrissyfarr FastCompany Do scientists on Twitter reachinfluence the public or mostly tweet to other scientists nicklegendre FastCompany Good question. Seems like its both. jswartz talk to chrissiemurray Sadly...this is just another risk that entrepreneurs have to evaluate. scicurious of course. Appreciate your comments. docfreeride scicurious DNLee FastCompany ThePurplePage those quoted are all women bar . This is v. important thx for raising. docfreeride scicurious DNLee FastCompany ThePurplePage This wasnt that. It was about role of the scientists as a trusted public voice docfreeride scicurious DNLee FastCompany ThePurplePage thank u. Ive taken note for future coverage re scientists to follow on social DNLee docfreeride FastCompany ThePurplePage If you have any constructive feedback about the article plz let me know. DNLee docfreeride FastCompany ThePurplePage This was a sidebar to get readers started. Not a definitive list of scientists on social. DNLee ThePurplePage FastCompany the list is a sidebar to a feature. We crowdsourced names from other scientists amp not our own coverage My latest What the uncertain future of Obamacare means for entrepreneurs aca startups health RT mdweinberg Why I believe entrepreneurs need to be careful given national health reform conversations chrissyfarr FastCompany https PsycleDoc necessary to keep journalism alive Any day now. RT RichDuszak Whats being forgotten is that people dont want more health care they want better health. KPS dariustahir nice RT dariustahir andMe has a really limited conception of the uses of spit. At a Color allhands to learn about an investigation into high rates of breastovarian cancer in Trinidad amp Tobago imkialikethecar Im secretly American too. Born and raised in U.K. To New Yorker parents who wanted kids with British accents DaveLeeBBC homesick Lets get coffee soon As a Londoner never felt so at home in San Francisco RT mhelft Zenefits Lays Off Employees Nearly Half of Its Staff One Year After Founders Departure RT cafedotcom Beautiful moment tedcruz defends cutting Medicaid by wishing woman with multiple sclerosis congratulations on your strug Hmm...A Green party supporter called in to On Point amp said If Trump can alleviate opioid abuse Im a convert. Anyone else feel like they used to be a wellrounded person and now only talk about health care amp politics RT brianleitten chrissyfarr Particularly . or . for hr access to one article that is several years old. Seriously inform bryanbui lkombs Was thinking about it a lot this wk. Lots of influencers in health care that arent being tapped incl. celebspatients Take a scientist out for coffee. And while youre at it a science journalist If youre not following ASlavitt rectify that RT fredtrotter Wow idoine and GoodRx have merged. That could mean big news for medication data innovation. RT modrnhealthcr With Price confirmation looming Georgia lawmakers seek to cap Medicaid funding RT thesullivan Expect Apples thanniversary iPhone to cost more than . Heres why. by thesullivan via lukebiotech thank you agbond Nope not this year. I tend to be at the smaller conferences amp JPM. Ive made my peace with journalism paywalls. Scientific journals citing research funded by taxpayers not so much. A daily problem. SavageLucia Im thinking less about examples of celebrities speaking outwriting opeds and more about companies... TheDocSmitty Im aware of celebs talking about health. Im thinking more about convergence of industry i.e. a productcompany around this.. meducate Yes but thats different than what Im suggesting i.e. the convergence of industries bethlinas P.s. thoughts on this vanessamason bethlinas Send it my way. meducate Reli I havent heard of any companies in this space. Send a list bethlinas Ditto. Wonder if it could also boost med adherence. Wonder if well see convergence of health amp entertainment sectors. E.g. Selena Gomez has lupus amp young sufferers may listen to her over MDs. IMO ccing assistants drastically decreases the chance of a meeting actually happening. RT byJuliaLove Apple has obsessed over every nook and cranny of its massive spaceship campus. One door handle took . years. Founder stories gt Theres a good chance that without the ACA my startup wouldnt exist... or Id be dead. akalali you got it Genomics historical research. Fascinated by how these fields are coming together. charliefick bingo. Specifically opioid abuse RT johnolilly Nearly k people streaming the th Circuit hearing on the Immigration Ban. RT USProjectCJR Are health reporters prepared for the Obamacare emergency Learned that Van Jones Newt Gingrich and Patrick Kennedy are working together on an issue. Without looking it up who can guess what it is nxthompson rapo great advice RT EksoBionics Sneak Peek Check out EksoBionics CEO being interviewed by chrissyfarr from FastCompany EksoGT EksoWorks exoskeleton All great questions. Whos tuning in Looking for folks in Silicon Valley who are trying out nextgen wellness services like Habit Forward Arivale. DM me. Im tracking how Trump administration acts on mental health amp addiction given the needs of voters RT Anthony of Americans think Obamacare and the Affordable Care Act are different things. RT EricLiptonNYT Republicans fear for their safety as Obamacare protests grow RT mbeisen And so I ask you in my fathers memory as you fight for science also fight to make science a more supportive and caring ent RT paulg An exciting example of a common startup technique spin it up in one market then spread. RT sahilkapur Why is Obamacare repeal suddenly so hardWere firing with real bullets now Republican Senator JeffFlake tells me. RT nxthompson You just have to work your ass off and love what you do rapo after ASME win on surviving now as a journalist. RT GlennThrush ACA plan He owes the people a result not a plan. Working with Congress. Very impt Unlike original ACA legislature ta RT ericdickinger chrissyfarr huge spike on Christmas day I wonder How many people are Googling what is the Affordable Care Act these days... brexitflashback RT statnews Colleges cant keep up with soaring mental health care demand leaving students stuck on weekslong wait lists. RT DiscoverMag Surgery in the early th century was messy dangerous and riveting. RT StephanieSimon You know youve been hankering for a CRISPR patent trial update.Youre welcome A point that a lot of policy sources have made Its much harder to give people something I.e. Health insurance than to take it away. ACA RT ArmstrongDrew The pharma lobby has made its offer on drug prices discounts when treatments dont work As a consumer of media do you most want I learned today that discussing brain damage and concussions isnt the best way to make friends during the Superbowl cemonaghan Im seeing a lot of MDs flock to social media too. Lots of commentary on this story. Next q. If youre a scientist or science communicator do you trust the press RT brianstelter The next time a reporter screws up maybe KellyannePolls will remember her own words Honest mistakes abound. RT deevybee thats the polite way of saying it RT JuddLegum . In conclusion America needs less chill. Spoke to a health VC on Friday who said his most frequent advice is Move out of the Valley. Youre a good biz but not suited to venture. A fantastic science journalism resource undarkmag RT ClayDellMed I believe I said human centered. We need to acknowledge that few humans want to be patients. RT TScottRupp An important reminder that science must up its communication strategy. A new world. chrissyfarr RT statnews ImmigrationBan harms global collaboration the lifeblood of biomedicine scientists say RT ArmstrongDrew HHS statement on program new HHS now runs RT stephaniemlee thread .davemorin great bumping into you RT verylightnosuga Also a quality discussion. Theres some access to care but is it truly of a meaningful caliber healthcare https RT amalec Identify Cost of coverage Actuarial value of coverage Exclusions to coverage limits restrictions various income sc RT JohnNosta Why we need scientists on social media now more than ever by chrissyfarr Would add cmichaelgibson RT marincogan Great fellowship opportunity for investigative reporters of color now accepting applications Reminded today that the commonlyused term have access to in health care doesnt mean the same thing as can afford to or guaranteed. hwitteman youre absolutely right lorashahine them too RT scottjbecker Folks the Prevention amp PublicHealth Fund is good saveELC pphf RT vicenews Will Trump sign a religious freedom executive order that some fear would legalize LGBTQ discrimination RT CaulfieldTim Yes Why we need scientists on social media now more than ever by chrissyfarr via FastCompan Let her eat Kale suggest hordes of Americans. RT drstclaire Millennials we need your help to fix healthcare by chasedave former adversaries teaming up to f jswartz Stanford RT harrymccracken Social media isnt just powerful for presidents of countries. Its important for scientists too. By chrissyfarr. ht aexm Who knows. Certainly media could have done a better job. chrissyfarr Not at all blaming the public for this. Ostaley Im not blaming the public at all. Its been a PR debacle. Boggles my mind every day how few people understand the basic mechanics of the ACA. My latest feature Why we need scientists on social media now more than ever a list of scientists to follow Are any wouldbe entrepreneurs concerned about leaving their jobs to start companies in this current climate Reach out via DM. ACA An HHS official tells me that the anxiety is insufficiently funded Medicaid block grants amp caps on enrollment. Millennials We Need Your Help To Fix Health Care argues chasedave a mustread Drug pricing will be such a fascinating issue for Trump administration. Populist agenda on one side pro business on the other. RT HEvigilante True innovation from peterbachmdUS Government Should Buy Gilead For Billion To Save Money On Hepatitis C RT deborahblum GOPcontrolled House moves to encourage drilling in national parks. ht grahamfarmelo Lots of potential to use Amazons Echo in medical emergencies if you could store address etc.Alexa Call . If more scientists start running for political office will they lose their status as a trusted voice Something to think about. RT WhySharksMatter Please do not hug sharks. RT TheScientistLLC Geneticist Announces Congressional Bid RT POLITICOPulse Trumps travel ban rattles medical residency programs RT sxbegle Another scientific group on Trump travel ban. TheEndoSociety says RT FastCoNews Trump holds biopharma meeting and reporters walked away confused RT SarahKarlin this photo so many MEN mostly white Men RT RockHealth Hes performed surgeries using VR as a sedation alternativenow this doc dreams of taking it beyond hospitals https RT mhess Brits really need to up their protest signage ht JessHullinger RT modrnhealthcr Cleveland Clinic weighs in on doctor forced to leave United States RT ESchattner Trump in Biopharma Meeting Pledges to Streamline FDA Cut Regulations But Wants Lower Prices by adamfeuerstein https RT GideonGil Students doctors HarvardMed urge cancellation of DanaFarber fundraiser at Trumps MaraLago via RT ddiamond Live look at reporters trying to keep up with the news cycle. Healthtechdoc yes RT charlesornstein Today I spoke to a THIRD doctor who cant come back to the United States because of Trumps travelban. Meet Dr. El RT reshmasaujani Its amazing that the two people showing the most bravery Judge Ann Donnellyand Sally Yates right now are women. Gir RT docrck No ban no wall healthcare for ALL IcahnMountSinai students faculty amp staff fighting for patients. DoNoHarm protectourpati RT igorvolsky Trumps firing of SallyQYates sends a clear message to govt employeesFrom now on your fidelity is to Trump not the U.S annewellpepper afrakt It never is for me RT afrakt Guys maybe we dont have time to remake the health system right now. RT AndyBiotech IBB XBI This will be fun Trump will meet with the prescription drug industry trade association PhRMA tomorrow at So often hear this from health entrepreneurs My company shouldnt exist and wouldnt if the system werent so broken. mediators Preach Records in a machine readable format in health care would be nirvana etxeba RT EricHolthaus Breaking Trump will abandon U.S. commitment to Paris climate accordand jeopardize the continued viability of our plane RT CarolineYLChen CEO of Moderna Tx RT ddiamond The first five executive orders signed by Obama vs the first five signed by Trump. RT rosical My cousins wedding just got canceled due to MuslimBan RT mat Were following which companies are speaking out on MuslimBan and which are not RT AndreyOstrovsky In solidarity w my fellow immigrants hustlin for better life in US Im reminding any govt trolls on socialmedia that Reread some old New Yorkers from SeptOctober. It was a few months ago but somehow seemed like a more innocent time. RT lisamjarvis Are you a biotechpharma researcher affected by the IO or worried about how itll impact business Please reach out https RT jmackin It gets worse. Brits banned from US if they have dual nationality with banned countries. RT biolojical Name these sharks................. Couldnt agree more RT ddiamond The White House summoned press last weekend to argue over crowd size.It hasnt held press briefings on orders that would af RT JohnTorousMD chrissyfarr RafaelACalvo covers and know this topic well with his work on positive computing mnshah jakemcclure I would argue investors do so they stop writing off decent cos that dont display Snapchat growth jakemcclure mnshah cc jayparkinson RT jakemcclure mnshah chrissyfarr bingo the length of time to see VCexpected ROI is too long. Youre right theyll flee. How can we measure an individuals health beyond Diagnosis amp sick No diagnosis amp not yet sickwellness sickcare MWFriedberg JAMAcurrent thanks RT omadahealth PHealth statesdj chrissyfarr HealthifyUS We join those conferences whenever possible despite uncertainty govt stil RT mnshah chrissyfarr Many end up hitting a giant brick wall and turn away from healthcare. Too much of thisThe tech exists and is cool. Lets find clinical applications for it. And not...Lets solve a real patient need RT AirstreamHealth Violently agree. Our teams public health background has been and will continue to be one of our biggest assets. h RT MaryWoolleyRA Only of Americans can name a living scientist Love this idea to help double that at least Acronyms youre the actual worst. A doc opens up about the struggles with his day job gt Scientists and science communicators who are your favorite scientists to follow on Twitter Curating a list. Send me suggestions. RT DrWeidner GoodRx And Iodine Quietly Merge To Help Consumers Find The Right Drugs digitalhealth Every healthtechnologist should be attending public health conferencesgatherings. Rarely see startups there with a few exceptions. Using design thinkingbehavioral economics to solve real problems. An inside look at a littleknown White House team RT crodarte chrissyfarr Techmeme FastCompany you dont see a lot of mergers it seems like seems like a good match here. RT GreeterDan If youre thinking of signing up for health care under the ACA heres vital info u need since gov has shut down ads. http RT bobkocher Because you dont choose when you get sick for one reason. And healthcare is expensive chrissyfarr Techmeme FastCompany cc RockHealth Scoop from me on the latest digital health deal gt A merger between Iodine and GoodRx. tip Techmeme RT vindugoel former Apple employees copy Apples quality practices but reject its secrecy to build their startup. Just read Goop for the first time. So excited to spend hundreds of dollars to help align my Chi. Scientists who are active on social media I would love to hear from you. Has it been worth it Should colleagues follow suit DM me. .fromthelabbench whats your best email Would love to chat for a fastcompany story RT seanmcarroll Science progresses by welcoming communication amp critique embracing change accepting the world as it is.Its an ideal RT JonLaMantia Scary stuff on how life insurers can use genetic testing against you via chrissyfarr RT macmanes Hey illumina. Which US sequencing provider has a NovaSeq coming RT EricHolthaus Are you a scientist or grad student with an EPA grant Id love to have a quick chat about your research whether or not RT bethlinas An other issue wth digitalhealth testing methods. Traditional RCTs take too long and But to get into clinical space ne RT ASlavitt If the ACA is repealed despite what Congress says or even intend expect the law end w no replacement Med exp donut ho RT culturedish This is cool. womenjournos will help you find diverse journalists for your panel chrissyfarr TheAtlantic Counterpoint from CaulfieldTim Would this mean that scientists are no longer a trusted independent voice Hell yes. chaitisen imkialikethecar Twitter please give us more than poll options Yup. It turns out that disrupting health care is not so easy. RT EricMKatz EPA employees are scrambling to save climate data saved on site Trumo admin has instructed them to delete How will you be personally impacted by the next administration when it comes to your health care needs RT FastCompany On a list of happy children topped by the Netherlands the U.S. came in th of countries https RT aHealthAdvocate Those who get genetic tests can legally be discriminated against by insurance cos. by chriss RT hangingsliders The BadlandsNPS climate tweets have been deleted. I took screenshots. jowens emmarcourt megkesh Follow fellow journalists who cover healthtech biotech matthewherper stephaniemlee dariustahir RebeccaDRobbins CarolineYLChen RT katesheppard Please consider donating to the Society of Environmental Journalists. sejorgs work is more important than ever. https RT ASlavitt Day out of government I watched what happens when politicians get in the way of Americans access to care. More when its o RT mpondfield I just cant believe were having to yell Science is real. chrissyfarr CaulfieldTim educat Scientists we need your voice in the next years. Its time to be public educators and not just behindthescenes. cc CaulfieldTim RT sciam Trump administration restricts news from federal scientists at USDA EPA RT edzitron chrissyfarr it totally is I mostly say oh you know them Go ahead. Its easier a bigger success for all and its actual lisapinkerton Smart CEOsfounders make time for media relations. Publicfacing image of company shouldnt be delegated. ErnOpp lame edzitron sounds v. unfair to client. edzitron sure GreeterDan ill have my AI assistant email you with m time slots. qhardy I come off like a real dragon in person. I get it. speirin sigh If you know me personally why hire a PR firm to reach out Dont get it. RT harrymccracken Another opportunity to work at Fast Company. RT FastCompany Use these tips to make sure your emails get answered and your invoices paid RT FastCompany Under fire from Big Pharma Martin Shkreli employs the everybody does it defense Looking to write about leadership amp the future of the workplace Goal for Try more stuff not just write about it. gonzo humanguineapig health biotech RT chepm Unanswered Unpaid Unclear on why you dont hear back Check these tips via chrissyfarr on professional ghosting A list of top biotech investors. Worth noting when a venturebacked biotech dont have from any of them gt RT CaulfieldTim Gwyneths bunk formula Sciencey words but rooted in loony pseudoscience. Allows critical wiggle room RT RebeccaDRobbins His pinned tweet is a Boston Business Journal article calling him the Antonin Scalia of the life sciences . jilleduffy hah I just over pronounce my rrrrs Im convinced that Alexa struggles with my British accent. Fascinating story gt RT biocuriosity along w frozen grants EPA staff got this memo sent anonymously by an EPA staffer to an anonymous congressperson https RT PedsGeekMD Doctors esp peds are in a unique position to combat alternativefacts. Weve had to do so for our whole careers. GabeOtte the usual cast of characters. I particularly enjoy the NewYorker amp FastCompany print editions shameless plug RT andrewmseaman Maybe Im pollyannaish but I grow more confident each day that the press is up to the task of covering the Trump admini RT AlexVerbeek Let those that work so hard to preserve the beauty of our planet do their work EPA TheRe As a patient I want rescue medicine amp not incremental medicine. A magic fix. We need to think differently. moorehn Agree but I duno about comparing the compensation we give our best lawyers amp our best journalists in the same tweet RT atulbutte James Allison Without basic science we arent going to have anything more to translate PMWC joshelman And sadly young journalists like myself no longer have seasoned professional mentors like they used to. Seriously if you care about accountability this is the year to start subscribing to reputable journalism sources. joshelman Broadly it means that journalists can only stay in journalism for so long. We dont support them. RT reenapande Well worth the read. An ode to the power of connection in medicine. Relationships matter. People need people. It will alwa About people have recommended this to me. Sharing before I read... Some good news from in case you need it. Dear Silicon Valley Stop lying to patients. nxpatel sacjai CareMoreHealth Why Who would you call out from healthsciencebiotech community for doing great work in that served patients amp why No clients plz. Of course it did. qhardy Congrats friend RT PaulThomas chrissyfarr while goforward appears sexy it lacks the affordability that our current healthcare system needs https Trumps education pick Betsy DeVos has a financial stake in Theranos. RT AtulGawande Trump laying path for conflict of interest and corruption by not releasing his returns or business ownership. MDs face st RT larryryckman Spotted at WomensMarchDenver Tune in for our take on jpm. We discuss health trends amp Trump... stephenkraus trevorbprice seanduffy AmbarBh RT stephenkraus Excited to announce our new healthcare podcast A Healthy Dose w cohost trevorbprice and first guests chrissyfarr s RT OxeonPartners Check out A Healthy Dose by trevorbprice amp stephenkraus with chrissyfarr seanduffy amp AmbarBh My aunt who is blind hard of hearing and has COPD will be out marching this weekend. Feeling a strong urge to crawl into a cave today. Denial is a powerful human emotion. RT mviser Whether you love her or hate her and plenty do both Hillary Clintons attendance of this inauguration shows an awful lot of Just got a cold email from a reader just to say thanks for throwing out the press release on a story. Made my day. RT vgul chrissyfarr Top . Data interoperability . Data interoperability . Data interoperability RT voxdotcom Womens March expected to be largest gathering of people with disabilities in US History vafbento genius idea At docs office watching reality TV. Premise is undercover boss. Obvious flaw here The cameras. Food for thought If someone gave you M what would you do to make the most impact on improving our health care system RT UpshotNYT Society relies on an army of unpaid caregivers of elderly relatives. It isnt sustainable. RT BradMcCarty In case youre wondering Im not sure theres a good way to break down HIPAAs Title II for easy digestion. Its a smorga BrianEastwood aexm Yes I see that too aexm That would make it v. expensive for an employee to see a specialist erikrtn sophialee Ive heard that from a few people now. No its not. aexm Thats possible although theyd have to lure these employers from One Medical. Forward is offering very direct primary care. Is it worth it ethanjweiss love to. MWFriedberg its a design touch. Far bigger questionsconcerns loom. JordanA FastCompany totally. See my rant on how few preventative tests are recommendedevidencebased amp problem of over diagnosis garbageplate it doesnt. Most people will still have high deductible insurance or employer sponsored RT cwhogg chrissyfarr Investors and potential employees read tech press. Also if coming from tech its what they know as validation. tolles sad we are in such a privileged position RT tolles chrissyfarr guessing most professionals see the press as dangerous. Tech people see the press as PR. So... RT Mikettownsend chrissyfarr ya tech is like lighter fluid just makes the fire hotter.. The challenge is moral decisions we must make RT ethanbechtel chrissyfarr Back in we used to try to justify ROI to sell EHRs. years later everybody saw it driving costs up n RT KennethBaer chrissyfarr lots of maths really fast. How come health tech cos will target tech reporters more frequently than health or biotech More of them Afraid of criticism imkialikethecar JordanMichaels Sadly a lot of healthtech cos arent. Its hard. Instead they sprinkle fancy tech on top of status quo. eramirez JordanMichaels Agree Chatting with JordanMichaels about something way more interesting in health care than tech innovation Business model innovation. RT MattRosoff Lotta hype about Forward the exGooglers plan to save health care. Liked this more sober take from chrissyfarr RT jbenton JOB ALERT A year nontenure teaching position at emersoncollege in digital journalism starting this fall. chrissyfarr oops also feat jayparkinson I researched of evidencebased preventative tests recommended for me yo female nonsmoker. Its a short list. chrissyfarr feat. expertise from GoldDirectCare chasedave zakholdsworth ferenstein FastCompany thanks friend pdzamorano onemedical FastCompany what aspect would u have wanted covered Touched on challenges for both w a millennial subscriber base pdzamorano onemedical FastCompany I dont believe that you necessarily do drive down costs that way depending on the population imkialikethecar FastCompany thank you Grats on the new gig RT alarsonthomas Solid analysis chrissyfarr. Experience design can only get us so far in scaling for such a complex market and this fr albertfong FastCompany for some at least for now pdzamorano onemedical FastCompany give the piece a skim. I spelled out how these approaches are different My deep dive into Forward Silicon Valleys take on direct primary care Netflixstyle subscription no insurance Challenge Explain what IBM Watson actually does without using buzz wordsjargon. That includes AI. Go. RT jq Reply to chrissyfarr tech will not fix the fundamental issues driving the cost of healthcare in the US. period. SteveLockstep it depends on the timeframe antonioregalado Depends on your timeframe RT nikillinit chrissyfarr robot surgeries a good example the da vinci robot Its so dangerous and happens a lot to make assumption that more tech in health care means lower costs. Sometimes its higher. RT stephaniemlee Stanford now has a Center for Digital Health and its giving away k Apple Watches for health studies https brooke imkialikethecar Fair enough. Im not writing about the Voss water. imkialikethecar GreeterDan Referrals. P.s. my story on Forward is forthcoming. Its taking a while because I have a lot of people to talk to amp much to digest. imkialikethecar Begs q. Who is this targeted to ethanjweiss curious whether doctors are trained to be able to interpret this tech incl. genomics etc. Or whether patients need it. So much focus on tech not the key innovation. What matters is the direct primary care. Open q Is pm too much Breaking news from Theranos The company recruits a new board of med device engineering experts Need to chat urgently to an expert on direct primary care. No PR. DM me. RT thespinmd chrissyfarr Especially since the only people who care if a journalist is first are other journalists. Wish journalists could be more focused on being better than first StuartBlitz yes Healthtech startups founded by exGoogleTwitterYahooFBeBayForward Color Collective Health Vida Health Grand Rounds OmadaOthers RT demccaffrey Of course they did that IP portfolio is worth gt Fitbit Tried To Buy ArchRival Jawbone wea Glad we have our priorities straight RT FastCompany How tech in Silicon Valley is working to help those with eating disorders My latest Eating Disorders Are Getting The Silicon Valley Treatment profile on theprojectheal recovrec reenapande yep glfceo all inclusive primary care Think about it for a while... These days sequences of DNA can be bought on the internet for pennies. How much would you be willing to pay per month for super highquality primary care if your insurance wasnt accepted Before you look at this website can you guess which scientists saved the most lives thru their intervention NewYorker if you must read online Lyme Disease Nantucket and DNA editing. Had this one bookmarked for a while. printsundays via NewYorker RT ddiamond Silicon Valley exec that Trump is considering to run FDA deletes all his tweets except this one. RT DShaywitz Pretty amazing evolution in holter technology compare iRhythmTech Zio patch L to previous std of care R. ethanjweiss RT CarolineYLChen Patrick SoonShiong rumored in the mix for NIH chief according to Nature. NH NK conormyhrvold yes after repeated messages If youve been professional ghosted why do you think the other party went radio silent nikillinit bballinger Every actor has a greater incentive to keep HC opaque. PsycleDoc totally nikillinit bballinger Disagree. Public can grasp basics wo use of inflammatory terminology designed to incite fear. An embargo signals I am offering this to other reporters too. Unless youre a really big company that seems like a risky move. nikillinit bballinger And we have a populist in charge who is making decisions based on public sentiment nikillinit bballinger For starters drug pricing is an issue that the public is increasingly concerned about wo understanding it. nikillinit bballinger What is a PBM How do pharma cos price drugs How doesdid the ACA work So much of health is BB amp a black box. RT lukebiotech fun interview around the liquid biopsy field thanks fastcompany chrissyfarr liquidbiopsy One takeaway from JPM Now more than ever with a populist in charge the health sector needs to do a better job of educating the public RT splcenter One cancer patient shares why she needs the Affordable Care Act by xeni ProtectOurCare RT damiangarde underappreciated externality of an ACA repeal a chilling effect on entrepreneurialism Arthur FastCompany GabeOtte lukebiotech food coloring lisamjarvis FastCompany GabeOtte lukebiotech its invisible for our fake experiment At FastCompany we make our biotech CEOs do lab work on camera GabeOtte lukebiotech My next story isnt about health care. Taking a very brief break. Q have you ever been professionally ghosted If so DM me. I attended Camp Grounded in initially as a skeptical journalist but ultimately a convert. Such a tragic loss. RT ASlavitt days left. Punchlist checks.Coverage of CGMsPenn rural health grantMA data transparencyNew data for primary care Biggest deal buzz at JPM Grails B round. Totally unprecedented amp a fastcompany scoop from last month. liquidbiopsy blood rborkows Too bad I was born in the s. Would have been my decade to shine. And its a wrap Heres my before and after from JPM Epic wont sign nondisclosure agreements with anyone but makes outsiders agree to them more gems in this piece matthewherper seanduffy invent a term become self identified leader in the space. .seanduffy says he invented the term digital therapeutics a few years ago. He just started saying it. Its a term I heard a lot at JPM Yep Health and tech arent the same thing. You rarely hyperscale in health stephenkraus Speculating with AmbarBh about what Amazon could do in health care. One idea Buy a PBM. JPM RT simonelandon These are the antiabortion measures introduced in Missouri just this year. more in other states RT FayCortez The drug industry trembles before Trump. Or JPM reax to realDonaldTrumps stream of health care consciousness. In this climate lots of concerns for health startups that sell to Physicians Hospitals Employers PharmaWhats left JPM RT rickkelly Genuinely concerned for the wellbeing of my family. We have a child with a . million condition. Life or death situation RT ddiamond Voted down tonight in Senate Keep preexisting conditions protection Let young adults stay on parents plan Keep contrac RT FreedomofPress The same antipress lawyers who helped bankrupt Gawker are now going after Techdirt. Disgraceful. Ok there are blood draws magic tricks and a neuroscience drinking game at this JPM dinner party. RT youngvulgarian funnily enough sad and salacious is also how I describe myself on Tinder ldtimmerman adamfeuerstein CarolineYLChen lisamjarvis cool crew RT StevenChanMD Any pilots I see. I want RCTs. Casper de Clercq on badpitches JPM Wintertech MeekIsaac fair JeffBenjam its my most important conference of the year. Not usually this crazy thank god Today hours stories video segments meetings. JPM After years of research celmatix releases its DNA test for fertility genetics fertility Two upandcoming areas for applied genomics Reproductive health infectious disease. JPM Is there any other profession aside from journalism where just following up emails are totally normal. RT ahier By ChrissyFarr Illumina using IBMWatson to Get DNA tests to more cancer pts RT antonioregalado Confessions of a Gene Therapy SelfExperimenter. friendly guy too. RT sangerkatz Reminder Vaccine safety is settled science. aaronecarroll brings wisdom. At a jampacked women in venture dinner hosted by canaanpartners at JPM special guest is karaswisher RT yesi chrissyfarr illumina Is Using IBMWatson To Get DNA Tests To More Cancer Patients JPM HIMSS FarzadMD hah maybe someone wants my plasma Oh at jpm Pharma cos under pressure to not screw up on drug pricing with a populist in charge. One bad actor could do a lot of damage Lots of optimism among execs at JPM Interesting insight on VC landscape RT FarzadMD We believe that the federal government leg amp exec is committed to implementing MACRA and we will continue to grow our RT FarzadMD We believe as do some super sharp investors that the move from volume to value is going to continue. cf QampA RT loisbeckett Tribune investor Patrick SoonShiongwho aims to save journalism with machine learning amp artificial intelligencemeeting AliveCor DrDave Photo credit thestanovision Just got invited to a JPM dinner party that Im told involves my blood getting drawn. Fun interview w AliveCors DrDave had idea for portable EKG in s. Made it happen in . Now used by thous RT jayparkinson Id say its the of us in America who dont yet need the entire arsenal of medical care thrown at them. If I go quiet its because I got blown away in this rain amp wind storm JPM Funny how telehealth is synonymous with innovation for so many at JPM. The tech has been around for a really long time. Me Lets discuss the reality of repealing the ACA. Every hospital exec No. Lets talk about Medicaid cuts.JPM jordoncloud Nope OH at JPM If you want more attention on a health problem make it a male problem. KPatrickAllen this was the focus of my most recent feature After years of covering genomics I finally sent in a sample bitthebullet RT ProofPilot chrissyfarr Not being smart but at this early stage isnt it everyone except young male tech early adopters in big coast RT kristenvbrown For good background re Illuminas today see this chrissyfarr joint And the announcement htt RT GenomicsGuy Illumina is building the App Store of DNA sequencing by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT RebeccaDRobbins .VP Biden apologizing for being late to speak at JPM. They dont let me fly commercially for another two weeks. Asking everyone for their take on the most underserved opportunity in health care. So far Medicaid pops teens addicts women jpm RT ASlavitt st takeaway from JPM on ACAEvery industry scrambling protect their interests.Keeping eyes open industry protectin RT KevinADavies chrissyfarr illumina fdesouza a ...new and scalable sequencing architecture expected one day to enable a genome. Massive box from Illumina. Cost per genome ethanjweiss wish I could but headed back to JPM. We did a video shoot with the Nanopore. See you later this week at JPM ethanjweiss Genentech hall Taking a break from JPM to film some DNA sequencing at UCSF fun RT EricHolthaus There are days where I literally cant work. Ill read a story amp shut down for rest of the day. Not much helps besides ex RT EricHolthaus Im starting my th year working on climate change including the last in daily journalism. Today I went to see a coun RT cdweaver Theranos voided sone HbAc diabetes tests including for a patient whose doubts about her result we covered First rule of tech The bigger the company the longer the conference call dialin code MaxiMacki looking at may for a trip home Happy birthday to fellow Brit and birthday mate VahabzadehMD The usual A lot of healthbiotech news on my birthday JPM chrissyfarr I reported this last month amp that the funds would be used in part for a largescale clinical trial in the UK. Breaking Grail confirms that it is planning to raise in excess of B in series B financing a MASSIVE round RT CarolineYLChen Read this. First big digital health deal of the year Castlight Health just bought Jiff RT lucymarcus The UKs National Health Service is testing out a medical chatbot as a nonemergency helpline Had a blast discussing health policy from Obamacare to Trumpcare on the RockHealth podcast gt paulwrblanchard Thanks I am. Seems like such a long time seems we had a walk down Charlotte Street. RT DrAndrewOld The impact of design in health spoon helps people with movement disorders eat. chrissyfarr desi RT DennisGShea An awful terrible nogood plan. RT EricTopol These days it seems every will see you now except the doctor Recovered from flu to a million emails about jpm RT bmess Patients taking charge will be an important year for journalism for better or for worse. RT FastCompany Crowdsourced from our readers the biggest boldest health predictions for RT RosenthalHealth How much of a problem really is malpractice cost Thx chadterhune of KHNews for reality checking new HHS nominee. ht RT JeremyHunt Introducing barcodes into the NHS will help transform standards of care saving time and resources RT heathermack Whos ready to hand over your DNA in the name of scientific progress by chrissyfarr via FastCo Crowdsourced health predictions from FastCompany readers health RT JoeBabaian Crowdsourced health predictions for hcldr by chrissyfarr RT ldavolio Pains me that Science today is still taught as lists of facts to memorize versus a process of discovery CaitlinKellyNYC Ugh hate that I definitely felt pushed in the direction of liberal arts. RT FastCoNews Verily and Nikon will develop machine learning tools to screen for vision loss Just had a fascinating interview re the gut microbiome. Wish I had learned about science in school like I do now as a health journalist. chrissyfarr guidance FDA releases its final guidance on medical device cybersecurity As hackers become more sophisticated..cybersecuri will be a big year for machine learning tools that read medical images amp screen for signs of disease. E.g. Im kinda loving Wired UK for health amp science writing. Agree Think of genomics...like a precautionary airbag. Most of us wouldnt dream of driving a car without it. RT NidalQanadilo Disrupting DNASequencing on way to becoming mainstream Very interestingstartup innovation Happy holidays Twitter. You guys are awesome. RT westr This startup will sequence your DNA so you can contribute to medical research by chrissyfarr GenosRes RT JohnNosta This startup will sequence your DNA so you can contribute to medical research by chrissyfarr digi My latest This startup will sequence your DNA so you can get paid to contribute to medical research typewriters yes ethanjweiss more tweet storms please JamesChisum agree jayparkinson too many emojis Ill share a story to illustrate Meet Stefanie. Her input helped Verily design a spoon for people with spinal chord injuries to eat independently jayparkinson patient tries to get test reimbursed Insurance Patient has to pay insurance price not out of pocket price Everyone RT ethanjweiss . That system is not sustainable end RT ethanjweiss . If you are just a person like us you pay but if you are an insurance company you pay RT ethanjweiss . . But we have a system where it is nearly impossible to know what you will have to pay for a product before you buy it RT ethanjweiss . I have a story to tell about our healthcare system and how its not working very well amalec hah matthewherper it was bad to worse. Not quite like ruining Christmas. Now that I know what PBMs do I feel very differently about the pharmacy experience. Ruined forever. RT MeaghanRSmith Emerging strong bipartisan consensus from Governors cant repeal healthcare without understanding what replacement is I want to edit more POV articles like this from VahabzadehMD. Reach out. No PR though. And you have to write it Things I think about Would love to see David Attenborough do a segment on human mating behavior by analyzing social media RT VahabzadehMD Thank you the shoutout TIME amp AspenInstitute Tech can really help mentalhealth in our jails opihana Spacekatgal yes to all of the above RT charlesornstein Attempts to snoop in Kanyes medical records once again show celebrities medical records tempt hospital workers http RT deborahblum Maine is interesting state. RT nikillinit chrissyfarr selfish instincts is always a more sustainable business than altruism yet to see a case where that isnt true FarzadMD Thats true but so few are doing that FarzadMD Ah so its about the talent... Probably the one with more financial backing. The former. Peter Thiel has at least private MD that jetsets with him around the globe. Is he in touch w RT MarsWxReport Todays forecast high temps across much of Canada and the upper midwest are colder than the last reported high from Mars Writing about competing startups. One is appealing to our selfish instincts the other to our desire to help others.Which will win RT MarcHarrisonMD Yes similar to patient care if it cant be accessed what good is it GabeOtte I sure hope not JohnWilson Ugh. Why do I bother I just read one of your stories about health care. Are you planning on writing any other stories about health care Has anyone ever had their genome used in medical research If so DM me. buhagiar It is Sometimes the answer isnt more innovation. Its better access to the innovation we already have. RT JPrendergass chrissyfarr Startups forget regulatory hurdles are hard to get over for a reason. While frustrating FDA review has save RT hjsoch Google Maps now notes if a location is wheelchair accessible RT HankGreelyLSJU By ArthurCaplan health privacy is dead It never was as robust as people believed but now it gamoid edzitron They told me recently that user nos are up post election TheVerge verge Another app calling itself a platform to evade responsibility. Good investigation into Talkspace by TheVerge nikillinit TheDocSmitty it totally depends on what youre building amp the claims youre making TheDocSmitty nikillinit Nope just asking. ddiamond That sounds like the first line of an epic rock song. JohnCendpts I think of JPM and I get flashbacks to stuffed elevators where Im the only woman. RT KevinJudice True story a nice touristy couple approached me in Union Square during JPM and said is this a morticians convention TheDocSmitty nikillinit Yep. Please let me know if you think Im ever hyping something up. RT nikillinit chrissyfarr devices become better as they get more data but the FDA process makes it hard to collect that data catch RT nikillinit chrissyfarr yes are there better ways to potentially make this process faster and bring life saving diagnostics to market As a Silicon Valley medicaltech reporter every month theres a deja vu moment. Some folks dont want to learn from others mistakes. nikillinit Good alternatives RT nikillinit chrissyfarr open question do you think there are alternatives to the way current testing is done for new diagnostic machi RT dmaccannell chrissyfarr Seems to be a common failing of disruptive diagnostic deviceservice cos. Regulatory path should be day c RT HITpol chrissyfarr correct orderdevelop medical devicetest deviceimproveFDA approvalgo to marketcontinue improvementsupgrade Wrong order Sell medical devicegt Finish medical device gt Seek regulatory approval .bballinger on using smartphones for medical research Dont build a research app. Build a consumer app with a research study attached. RT antonioregalado As a general tool theres no real excuse for universities giving exclusive license to CRISPR for therapeutics h RT antonioregalado When licensing IP to industry nonprofit institutions should in general favor nonexclusive licenses over exclusiv RT pathogenomenick Illumina reagents only up in New Year ... less than Id feared FYI The De Brouwers left Scanadu in May to work on new independent ventures a comment from them RT hinssen Sad day for Scanadu a company I invested in and a product I believed in. Want to hear walterdebrou PSA I have never been to amp wont be going to CES this year. RT ManeeshJuneja On the dark web Medical records are the new credit cards. chrissyfarr DigitalHealth GetMyHealthData RT ddiamond This was one of the great health care stories in . Still worth reading to understand Shkreli. RT ASlavitt DOUBLE BREAKING Huge demand for coverage. So we extend. RT ddiamond Obama said people signed up for coverage yesterdaybiggest day ever.I wonder how many were RT fcubedvc The purchasing power of women is massive and is becoming clearer says anuduggalnyc to FastCompany RT SteveLockstep The gene meme is so powerful. The simple unifying idea that Everything is Genetic arose with and thrives in the Infor How useful is the geneled approach to treating understanding cancer RT FastCompany There were some big innovations that made womens lives better in JesseHamlin A lot of PRs reached out and were like we didnt even pitch you. I told them that their users spoke for them. demccaffrey One thing at a time. JesseHamlin Pretty sure you made that suggestion nedrockson LOL RT nedrockson chrissyfarr Good it wasnt How do I set an alarm on my DNA Should i get my iPhone sequenced My dad just asked me in same m conversation How do I setup an alarm on my iPhone Should I get my DNA sequenced amazing RT cindypinkceo Brava to these belowthebelt badass broads cindygallop DrLeahM twinmiki LizSegran chrissy RT niamyaraghi My research on Evidence of inflation in nursing home ratings ddiamond charlesornstein chrissyf soychemist noooo Here are some innovations that made womens lives better in by moi amp LizSegran womenshealth RT chrislhayes But honestly it almost feels like the only person in America who will never lose his job over an offensive tweet is Dona RT cklemke Emphasis on gamechanger. RT mloxton In I ask for my medical images and encounter notes and they appear in my PHR ten min later no blank stare boldhcpredic RT RasuShrestha Meaningful interoperability will finally happen heralded by CONSUMER access amp arbitration of own health data. boldhcp RT BernardJTyson Primary doctors will treat more patients thru telehealth. Virtual visits outnumber inperson wo losing personal touch. RT bethkutscher The first female editor of JAMA shares what it takes to be the first naveen Bahaha. White man in suit with slides automatic thought leader. jordoncloud Ah no I wonder how many hours do you have to think per day to be a thought leader kyleserikawa oh. so it was replaced with something worse. I havent heard the term thought leader in a while. Perhaps it has been retired to the jargon graveyard. erikrtn REli Hey Im writing a story based on your boldHCpredictions not boring health predictions for keep em coming RT antidoteme Many more cancer patients will benefit from precision medicine not just those near academic centers.boldhcpredictions RT oliverkharraz Winning consumer loyalty in healthcare becomes even harder and more important. My boldhcpredictions Such an important message from VahabzadehMD a psychiatrist at a maximum security jail in the Bay Area RT davidlhalejr chrissyfarr doctors will have algorithms as an extra set of eyes to see inside the human body boldhcpredictions https RT milansteskal chrissyfarr we will stop talking about improving healthcare and finally start taking real actions boldhcpredictions RT TSBresenham chrissyfarr not outlandish but necessary healthcare will be the industry to propel more women into leadership boldhcpr RT itsKATnotCAT Im so fascinated by this article amp so pumped to brainstorm ideas. mentalhealth tech stephaniemlee Yep me neither Always refreshing to visit startups in Europe especially in my home town london RT itschekkers Also lets face it even a tiny incremental shift would be a boldhcpredictions loool nohlderyk probably true RT nohlderyk chrissyfarr Almost nothing changes. boldhcpredictions RT vanessamason .chrissyfarr Nurses pharmacists and other nondoc providers will finally have their time in the innovation spotlight vanessamason boldhcpredictions Many more people will have their whole genome or exome sequenced amp share that data with researchers boldhcpredictions RT drstclaire Virtual decentralized clinical trials will allow us to capture the of eligible participants currently missing out. bo RT JohnNosta In it wasnt just the worried well who used digital health tools. chrissyfarr FastCompany RT mloxton Medical mistakes drop off the top ten causes of death list boldhcpredictions RT KennethBaer Summer will be Summer of Zika as it makes its way deeper into US. Sleeper August issue for new AdminGOP congress. bo RT iMaheshKothari Someone will actually bring to life moonshot projects of theranos boldhcpredictions RT halletecco In it wasnt just the worried well who used digital health tools. by chrissyfarr via Fast RT jordoncloud will be the year of self care exercise healthy eating doctors will be overjoyed at the results. chrissyfarr b BradMcCarty thegovier cc anjalimullany medicaltourism boldhcpredictions RT thegovier chrissyfarr a startup disrupts medical tourism and brings it to the mainstream boldhcpredictions evolvability good one RT evolvability chrissyfarr laboratories are disrupted by tech that leverages mobile devices to measure and report clinical tests boldH RT EmilyFPeters chrissyfarr POTUS Trump swaps Obamacare for nearly identical Romneycare MA model. boldhcpredictions How did consumers in use digital health tools My deep dive into RockHealths surveycc boldhcpredictions RT chrislabarthe Investorsinnovators finally realize consumer health appsdevices appeal to top offer combo wealthhealth mgmt suit RT hosstina More female led VCs in healthcare boldhcpredictions naveen Agree on all of the above RT naveen boldhcpredictions voicebot UI PRO toolsHRAasgomkt planAPPL HC buying spreePBM disruptors gain steamWeedwe RT mdweinberg Repeal and delay of the ACA will create major economic chaos leading country into a recession. boldhcpredictions RT BrianEastwood Everyone will want piece of diabetes mgmt pie but few will be able to deliver comprehensive evidencebased programs. RT annerskg Will be the year healthcare starts talking like humans We dont need fancy language we need CLEAR language. boldhcpr RT FastCompany The Internet shares its boldest health care predictions for . Got ideas Share them using boldhcpredictions Teenwomenschildrens health startups finally start getting the funding they need from VC community boldHCpredictions RT FastCompany A jail psychiatrist to technologists We need your help KennethBaer Yup markolschesky boldHCpredictions RT davidlidsky Insurance will mean putting on two bandaids boldhcpredictions davidlidsky Youre the second person whos suggested that... Zombies HealthSparq burtrosen nickisnpdx Nice chrislabarthe annerskg lol RT vijayramnath chrissyfarr Affordable care is now actually affordable boldhcpredictions RT nickisnpdx chrissyfarr burtrosen doc offices start texting w their patients like we do in the real world. boldhcpredictions RT burtrosen nickisnpdx chrissyfarr Fax machines finally die the death they should have in health care. years overdue boldhcpredic RT annerskg Wait for it...ALL patients will be treated like VIPs as hospitalsdocs fight for the business of informed consumers boldhcp ManeeshJuneja chaugh boldHCpredictions ashokaraj boldhcpredictions You guys I made a post out of your boldhcpredictions. Keep em coming RT burtrosen chrissyfarr Im in another one providers start asking patients for advice because patients go out and learn everything b jaredpeters boldhcpredictions hueykwik Zombie apocalypse boldHCpredictions ManeeshJuneja chaugh boldhcpredictions BrianEastwood Thats my future slogan when I run for office. Helping You Achieve Your Wellness Destiny. Who can argue Share your outlandishnot boring health care predictions with hashtag boldhcpredictions RT elasseron chrissyfarr more overdue than outlandish bigdata amp PrecisionMedicine helping women better understand their bodies amp rep RT sarahdoody chrissyfarr I wish way more health insurance companies would reward me for good health habits. healthtech elasseron boldhcpredictions burtrosen lets spread this hashtag boldhcpredictions. Mine Millions demand their EMR data hospitals amp vendors scramble RT burtrosen chrissyfarr one more people patients consumers whatever we call them strike against the hc system because it sucks bo RT vgul chrissyfarr sleep and opioids will be the biggest nonpolicy health stories mdweinberg Happy players PBMs pharmaUnhappy Health systems insurance Still unhappy Patients doctors amp nurses mdweinberg No but no one speaks such truths through a PR agency. RT ahier Technology can help in all areas of healthcare but mentalhealth and corrections especially Everyone seems to have same health predictions for acc to my Inbox. Theyre all expected telemedicine e.g.. Any outlandish ideas RT MandiBPro Great to see chrissyfarr fastcompany Theranos referenced at NODE ConnectHealth to highlight critical role of evidence i Love that a friend in the UK just asked me to interpret what a startup actually does because its website was still jargony. A Jail Psychiatrist To Technologists We Need Your Help mustread by VahabzadehMD MJDunkley amalec sabahoney Yes I really should With permission a smartstuffonnapkins series to help folks understand HC MJDunkley God I hope so. I was thinking a lot about this yesterday. Philosophical q. In next yrs will we develop lots more drugs or use our existing ones in new waysOr both Thankful to all the smart folks who took time to explain complicated stuff to me on napkins this year amalec sabahoney amp many more. Ill just leave this here RT halletecco chrissyfarr just under of venturebacked digital health cos funded this year have a woman CEO via RockHea Wonder if the s have shifted on this front. RockHealth Anecdotally I seem to be meeting more female CEOs affixthecrown Not sure I understand We could do so much better with online health info incl. symptom search. WebMD founded in mids. Whats next RT roundstable Reworking Wikipedia health entries is not a trivial task explain lesleywmcclurg amp jbrooksfoy RT WSJ Opioidrelated problems in babies surge in rural areas study says RT BernieSanders Poverty in America is a death sentence. Wealthy women live years longer than lower income women. VC Scott Gottlieb is another candidate for FDA. His most recent oped is titled A Personal Tale Of ObamaCare Woe RT StuartBlitz Any cool health people in London I should meet Cc chrissyfarr RT stephaniemlee I got invited to a Silicon Valley party where everyone lay down and went to sleep mfrisse amalec lets chat Hoping I have never done this RT MalloryLPickett Trumps D.O.E. transition team has asked for a list of names of employees and contractors who worked on climate change Pretty sure every journalist is going to be asked about Fake News at every future panel for the next year regardless of the topic CurtisDuggan jayparkinson goldsteinjonas More on the showmetheresearch thread I wish fixing health care was as simple as building a cool machine learning application At PRSA tonight giving health amp tech predictions for mediapredicts. Tough ask as its RT Berci In five years machine learning will be a part of every doctors job CEO of AliveCor says digitalhealt RT PeterLoPR The divide between cutting edge health and those who have access to it will continue to grow says chrissyfarr MP RT AaronStrout mp chrissyfarr rails against platforms absolving themselves of responsibility because they are just a platform. MP RT emay Longing for the day I know enough to be dangerous chrissyfarr MP RT IrinaEfremova chrissyfarr Genomics in will go from pure science to practical applications. Think tailored products based on RT stevesilberman Trump team considering FDA chief who thinks drugs shouldnt have to be proven effective to get approved. brianreid Lets get a beer amalec mfrisse Thanks brianreid Hah. Are you going jsolly AGREE RT crauber chrissyfarr Yes but. We need to get folks invested in investigative factbased journalism so they dont tune it out. chrissyfarr I just want to write clickbait times a day said no child dreaming of being a journalist ever Lets really talk in about how to support investigative journalism at least as much as we complain about the media CarolineYLChen BuzzFeedNews agree Also glad buzzfeed is fundingsupporting yearlong investigations RT CarolineYLChen This Buzzfeed investigation is incredible. It breaks my heart for those patients who are now scared of seeking care. ht RT charlesornstein When folks say that doctors cant be bribed and that pharma payments dont matter just look at Insys. miller chrisvanderveen NEWS thanks Next up on my reading list RT stevesilberman Even factchecking sheep doesnt work anymore. No one cares. Need an expert on PBMs to get a coffee with me and walk me through something. Any takers mbaram musical RT thetylerhayes One of the smartest things Ive ever done not accept an acquisition offer too early.One of dumbest not accept it whe RT KQEDnews FourLegged Medical Care Helps San Franciscos Homeless Trump promises to bring down drug prices I dont like what has happened. q. not asked HOW SavageLucia scifri Thx for heads up Ill listen in RT RuthReader aprilolanoff chrissyfarr Yet another example of patients being treated like profitcenters wo dignity amp respect gt RT ZTracer Investors are taking BuzzFeeds report on UHS pretty seriously by RosalindZAdams RT SarahKarlin My twitter feed is totally freaking out about the possibility of Jim ONeill heading fda. And you all thought the Cures b aprilolanoff I have colleagues at FC who have trained theirs to use the toilet. May or may not include RuthReader aprilolanoff if you can convince my landlord thatd be great Scrolling through Twitter these days only makes me want to get a cat EVEN MORE. RT ErinBurnett Actor amp Environmental activist LeoDiCaprio met w realDonaldTrump for mins today spent hours in Trump Tower trump RT nycjim The ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Agency is about to stop protecting the environment. RT skarlamangla Officials says the oaklandfire led to the highest number of fire fatalities in years in the United States. RT SFMOMA In recognition of the OaklandFire tragedy SFMOMA will be free tomorrow from pm. Come reflect mourn and heal with those y RT aarti This is unbelievably hard to watch. Oakland warehouse manager on the fire that killed via todaysh RT prsasv Let us know what youd like to ask Chrissy Farr at this years PRSA Silicon Valley Media Predicts. MP RT tim By the time Im an adult well have hopefully put our country on a better track says yearold data scientist RT scottbudman Bless you bluebottleroast. An Oakland company donating of todays sales to victims of the oaklandfire RT DrSidMukherjee From Maria Popovas brainpickings RT TonyRomm this isa a v good stephaniemlee storyb a reminder as to why certain tech folks working on HHSFDA issues under Trump RT charlesornstein New York expands transgender health care. Medicaid will now cover gender transition for youth. SeanSchick got it ill alert SeanSchick I havent shared that yet. Does this work for u Some tech companies making a bet on life sciences with a partnershipdriven approach AlphabetVerily IBM GE. Curious to see results. Machine learning algorithms for spotting diabetic retinopathy totally makes sense gt RT megkesh How a string of flickering bulbs could maybe treat Alzheimers JohnWilson sadly not just thinking of twitter followers abroad JohnWilson its late in Europe vanessamason yes JohnWilson too early RT vanessamason chrissyfarr or micronutrient deficiencies like vitamin D if thats possible KennethBaer probably Who is furthest along with smart toilet Dont even need microbiomegut analysis. How about a screen for protein in urine RT cshperspectives In other news climate change vaccine efficacy plant and human genetics all found to be actual science not political RT LisaA Rare genetic conditions are actually common in the aggregate says Randy Scott Invitae GenomeMed UYG jayparkinson goldsteinjonas Medium another issue how much is real vs placebo Sleepio has done some interesting research on this RT jayparkinson chrissyfarr goldsteinjonas Ha. Of course they wouldnt. Therein lies the rub. Similar to fake news prob. jayparkinson goldsteinjonas RockHealth this would be a great topic for a forum sometime... jayparkinson goldsteinjonas why would they be incentivized to publish negative on their side RT jayparkinson goldsteinjonas chrissyfarr This is required reading for the state of medical research today. ht goldsteinjonas jayparkinson so what do you propose to fix incentives Aside from not taking VC capital jayparkinson goldsteinjonas PaulLikeMe doing some interesting work around falsifiable hypotheses Makes me happy that a bunch of readers tweeted their local gov linking to this story. Can we do better in my town jayparkinson goldsteinjonas yes amp this problem goes far beyond digital health. jayparkinson its not all in that manner but sometimes is. I would love more academics to independently vet e.g. Mount Sinai amp Theranos RT jordosh The Mental Health of Children Who Have Never Known Peace jayparkinson oh man youre asking a lot. We are at step of any research at all RT laliferis The entire talk is riveting... demccaffrey orrecobrian yes clinical research is part of outcomes RT thisisinsider Want to work at thisisinsider Check out our latest internship listings here journalismjobs RT goldsteinjonas addiction care ltc end of life models could fit into Medicaid but worth calling out Today is my one year anniversary at FastCompany acc. to LinkedIn. RT omadahealth Job Pass the Medical Director Test prove that your solution works. Job Charge clients and partners on delivering Hope focus is Plumbing to aggregate health data Women amp childrens healthprimary care Tools for Medicaid pops Illumina is now offering financial support to children with rare diseases to get their whole genome sequenced orrecobrian Maybe Ill start a showmetheresearch hashtag KPatrickAllen Gah erikrtn Reli hard to say if a product is harmless or not. Is there something actually valuable that someone isnt doing bc of placebo erikrtn yes funny how startups do that. We dont have evidence for our product but heres some slightly related research On a note shortlist of digital health startups w outcomes pages on their sites omadahealth PropellerHealth Sleepio maturation RT TheSciBabe juliekelly jtotheizzoe Why would science be inflammatory Science simply is. RT bethlinas Important to note Apple hoping to build an evidence base to demonstrate effectiveness of mobile monitoring digitalhealth vgul Show me the research RT adequatehousing A shift in mindset lead to change amp housing for the chronically homeless in Utah by chriss RT tsmits A different way to think about homelessness by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT athenaInsight of Americans wants access to their health records have access amp would switch to get it. RT myhelix Helix is in this months FastCompany. Great article by chrissyfarr tolles if you make a decision to cover every funding round on your beat that alone is a full time job RT BradMcCarty chrissyfarr Now a hire That depends. Where did they come from Is it notable There could be a story of public interest RT BradMcCarty chrissyfarr Funding is not news. Its never been news. What theyre doing with the funding Maybe. If its more than just tolles dont agree that so much of reporters time needs to be dedicated to embargoed seed rounds RT qhardy chrissyfarr Thats always bullshit along w coming out of stealth. News to benefit investors and companies nothing for gener JohnTorousMD COULDNT AGREE MORE RT JohnTorousMD chrissyfarr Seeing that something is reproducible or at least independently verified seems a lot rarer and more newswor RT mcarney Small data set but nearly every meeting I have had with a cannabisfocused entrepreneurinvestor has been late or cancelled OphirGottlieb This stuff doesnt get page views. Q. Why has it become such standard news when a private company gets funding or hires an exec Why is this of public interest RT jayparkinson chrissyfarr The amount of damage lazy VC herd thinking can do to an industry is just getting started. Frustrating. Several biotechs have shared in past mos that the q they get from reporters is how are you different from Theranos SvenC Clue North Beach RT tracyfaleide When you listen to someones story from an open heart...you cant help but love and want to serve them. Give dignity r RT HPBTxpSurg One of the very best talks at TEDMED. At a coffee shop where most people are reading the paper and talking about the news rather than on a laptop. I feel like the odd one out. RT cintagliata If youve never tried to get your digital medical data nows a good time to try. Tips from chrissyfarr and GetMyHealth naveen Thx. What kind of ROI numbers would you want Costbased Return could also be value of human happiness The Man Who Reduced Homelessness In Utah By TEDMED RT CaulfieldTim Does Gene Testing Spur Healthier Habits Evidence say NO. Odd how this myth lives on. See https I spoke on this weeks scifri about how to access your digitized medical records and why its still such a pain RT MaxiMacki Missing feminine perspective in healthtechextends well into algorithmic bias design amp usability RT MikeIsaac the only good thing about this world is animals RT ahier Facebook Google cofounders sponsor lavish prizes in physics LifeSciences math drbob not OK. You have rights as patients to access that information. RT Joyous The dr who wants to cure mentalillness by studying the brains electrocircuits by chrissyfarr via RT GEHealthcare How our cryogenics engineers turned helium to Freelium labinvaders freelium sciencesaturday via chrissyfarr RT AmySherman Note to GilmoreGirls fanshaters stop tweeting at me. I am not the shows creator Amy ShermanPalladino. I write about f vanessamason yes StuartBlitz youre on healthguru Yes Lets schedule something hosstina Sounds gd Lets do something that doesnt involve a conference room Finally getting around to responding to JPM emails after TEDMED. Whos going and walks to go for a walk or get coffee RT charlesornstein A Lab in India Accidentally Released The Medical Reports Of People Including HIV via RT TheGoodDeath Proud to represent the death positive movement. Hope I did it some justice here. NewYorker https RT ShoshUMD Being human doesnt happen despite suffering it happens within it. hpm TEDMED chrissyfarr Fast DeclanmWaters sfwriter Coming on years RT DysthymicDad The doctor who wants to cure mental illness by studying the brains electrocircuits via chrissy RT scifri DrMacalester chrissyfarr Audio will be up around pm ET at this link ethanjweiss thx for listening Fun conversation on scifri thanks to fellow guest Erin Mackay from GetMyHealthData start demanding your medical info folks RT JohnTorousMD Progress understanding mentalhealth conditions comes from exploring all angles chrissyfarr FastCompany explore https On scifri in m right after this news break. Discussing the topic of accessing your digital health records via smartphone. Tune in While were on the topic of ehealth records heres my intro to the topic love this in RT williamalden SCOOP I got Zenefits confidential numbers. It lost M last year and M in first half of this yr. More here https TonyRomm hope its not Flat Whites no so many people who didnt realize they were drinking like espresso shots a day RT vanessamason Residential segregation is the secret sauce of racial inequity of the US correcting this would virtually end health disp This weeks news has me feeling like News A major departure from Apples health unit reports markgurman RT jordoncloud And this is why Im gifting ancestrydna tests to my entire family amp husband for Christmas this year. cc chrissyfarr http For the majority so far or maybe my network is really into health IT who have logged into a patient portal Thoughts Likesdislikes cairdin Send screenshot RT nickisnpdx chrissyfarr rocketgirlmd FastCompany grateful to the oncologist SarahCannonDocs who told my dad congratulations on e Have you ever logged into a patient portal online or via mobile to view your medical information Another TEDMED dispatch This Scientist Is Studying Mental Illness As An Electrical Issue RT hidrees chrissyfarr Yes With TouchID a lot harder to get to. What I care most about if my paramedicER doc knows it exists. RT scifri Today on SciFri we see how simple or difficult it is to get a digital copy of your medical data. RT Candormr TEDMEdlive KafuiDzirasa Mental illness as electrical issue. by chrissyfarr via FastCompany Did yall know about the Medical ID on iPhones health app for allergies blood type etc Swipe right amp hit emergency to see info if needed. Life lessons after death Physician rocketgirlmd explains her own healing at TEDMED inspiring RT williamjordann Three moments when media opted to cover Clinton significantly more than Trump throughout whole campaign FBI pneum RT KHayhoe Fake news is big these days. How can you tell if the latest climate headline is fake Heres a handy guide. ethanjweiss statesdj yes amp is mychart a hassle on your end E.g. Getting patients to use it Twitter DM has made me lazy about checking email ethanjweiss statesdj what do you hate most statesdj some like it especially the Kaiser patients I know chrissyfarr tip techmeme biotech is still tech sfwriter ddiamond matthewherper Reminds me of Epic claim that they spend on RampD. Evidence I know what we spend. Faulkner Yay Ill be on scifri tomorrow talking about one of my fave topics Accessing electronic health records via phone. Tune in at noon PT. RT ddiamond EpiPen CEO on why she hiked the price by I listened to the audio x to make sure I got it right and I still cant beli joshuamcclure FastCompany More so when you think about the size of the trial amp the ambition of the company. Updated the Grail story with more info about the round amp confirmations. Trial is K patients.Correct link chrissyfarr cc ethanjweiss AndyBiotech matthewherper size of clinical trial provides some explanation DShaywitz More info to come CarolineYLChen seems insane yes ethanjweiss AndyBiotech chasingthealpha way larger study than that from what I hear. k announced today is first step AndyBiotech chasingthealpha Company already raised M in series A .rocketgirlmd After my husband died I received a dozen bouquets. I sent one To his oncologist. She supported his goals.TEDMED ethanjweiss We shall see SCOOP Illumina spinout Grail is seeking to raise . billion to fund largescale clinical trial sources biotech Woah huge implications Amnesia is a deficit of memory access but the information survives. Toms Ryan TEDMED RT FarzadMD Thats the best name Ive heard yet on transition team. ScottGottliebMD is principled smart creative practical and cons RT StanfordHP Why this Obamacare architect is worried. bobkochers concerns about US health care by chrissyfarr RT BrandyLJensen the best thing about twitter is u can tweet about being sad and nobody is like try yoga theyre just all I too year Blown away by Lloyd Pendleton TEDMED. How did he help reduce homelessness in Utah by in yrs Meet people where they are. Kafui Dzirasa from Dukes Lab for Psychiatric Neuroengineering asks What if mental illness is a disorder of electricity TEDMED bobkocher Assumed a typo but maybe intentional RT TEDMED Which senses do you notice as your most sensitive TEDMED KaitlynHova Charles Chiu from UCSF shows off a pocketsized DNA sequencer. These are used in space amp around the world to surveil infections TEDMED RT harrymccracken Lets all get out there and fight the curse of health insurance America. ChrisSaad not cool Obama RT BatemanGroupPR Interesting observation from chrissyfarr in samwhitmore the CEOs she has the best ongoing relationship w are all Sharon Terry biomedical researchers will prioritize competing with each other vs alleviating human suffering TEDMED So glad Donald Trump is taking a stand against any bill that has resulted in health insurance. Just terrible. RT JaneKCall In Press releases embargoes mailmerge all need to be a thing of the past. Not how journalists work anymore. ch Mustread profile of the richest doctor in the country and of course the first to dine with Trump RT EricTopol An interesting FastCompany profile of DrPatSoonShiong by seancaptain RT PaulLikeMe ltImportantgt More research volunteers are getting their medical test results. Should we cheer or worry RT theinformation Exclusive Fitbit nearing deal to acquire Pebble. Deal signals a consolidation in the wearables market. AndreyOstrovsky RockHealth Lets chat again soon RT AndreyOstrovsky Hard not to speculate but we wont know til new leaders here. Either way medicaid needs your innovative spirit chr RT akalali Bruce Schneier the security Guru discusses security of medical records and data. Privacy core of ethical practice of medici evolvability RockHealth Highlights obamacare unfortunate name startups need to reduce RampD safe access to care notsomuch RT DavidCookeMD chrissyfarr Ketamine hallucinogen but does not cause respiratory depression. Effective in kids increasing use in adult Big trend Growth in medical uses of psychedelics amp cannabis. Cleveland Clinic named Ketamine as a top medical innovation for next yr. st Century Cures will lead to new drugs getting approved faster but will it impact patient safety RT stevesilberman Sad milestone SF AIDS Memorial runs out of room for names. RT starfirst Republicans suddenly discover that Obamacare repeal might not be so awesome after all philwahba kayelbee FortuneMagazine Agree RT NoamLevey st Century Cures Act sails through House RT fwpharma ForbesHealth Novartis Jimenez being paid on outcomes more risky but critical for future sustainability of sector Headed to TEDMED pslutsky TheCut jeanius Wow. You can now buy a genetic test on Amazon aside Amazon has a major untapped opp in health care RT abbygoodnough Obamacare enrollment for is still up about percent compared with last year in states using RT sangerkatz Another insightful ropear piece on what Price would like to do with Obamacare. RT PsycleDoc chrissyfarr if we cant Think and talk in a way that promotes parity then we cant act for parity RT PsycleDoc chrissyfarr how this relates to parity is our ability to have a conversation as society about difficult nonbinary experi PsycleDoc yes an example of how it relates to mental health parity PsycleDoc say more PsycleDoc yes How can we respond when freedom of press is threatened Do our job. Do it as its supposed to be done. PsycleDoc what do you think will happen in next administration w mental health parity dariustahir yah I guess doesnt solve problem of whats regulated some is Grey area PsycleDoc regulated quickly dariustahir DHOUFA will look. Includes all aspects of digital health PsycleDoc digital health cos Idea from Berkeleys James Robinson User fees for regulated parts of digital health to reduce potential backlog. Thoughts RT sciencemagazine Reviewing our understanding of biological clocks and the role they play in fitness and disease Headed to RockHealth for a webinar on how Trumps picks so far could change U.S. health care as we know it. RT DoctorV Important piece by chrissyfarr The Creative Way Public Health Advocates Are Trying To Get Hipsters To Quit Smoking RT CamiHRosso Are magnets the next frontier in surgery by chrissyfarr via FastCompany innovation healthcare RT PopperandCo Were tracking these five genomic startups. Are you by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT Schriock Nominating Tom Price as secretary of health and human services will jeopardize the health of millions of women. My statement RT NateSilver Trump will soon become the first president who failed to win a majority of the vote either in the general election or in RT JoyAnnReid Remind me how scandalous it was to give speeches to Goldman Sachs employees again Can public health keep up with Big Tobaccos creative marketing Heres one way. It involves RT charlesornstein Scoop Apple emails show plans for two FDAregulated cardiac devices via MobiHealthNews cwhogg dereknewell remote patient monitoring vs keeping women in hospital for observation RT RescueAgency Check out FastCompanys feature on our socmar program to reduce smoking among hipsters thanks RT WSJ How one nuns portfolio earned . last year RT statnews Bernie Sanders st Century Cures Act is a bad bill VahabzadehMD halletecco oh yes Im surprised we havent already talked about this RT ivanoransky Why science news embargoes are bad for the public My embargo manifesto in voxdotcom RT NARAL For someone tapped to be the top health care officer Tom Price doesnt seem to want HC to be safe or convenient for women. Pri RT ChrisMurphyCT Tom Price was the voice of GOP efforts to privatize Medicare amp repeal health coverage for M Americans. I wont support MWFriedberg halletecco on . Mind... blown... RT PostBaron Lose the smugness keep the mission. sulliview on how journalism must be reinvented. RT avijustin jelani read the article u sent me I was wrong. I wont delete my previous tweet cuz I dont believe in deleting mistakes RT eramirez Have a tech background and want to make a major impact on US health The All of Us Research Program needs a CTO RT hidrees chrissyfarr True. Cos of other sizes do it too. Snapchat claims big numbers for example. If youre private seems you can RT medpagetoday Prenatal Genetic Test Billing Practices Questioned cardiobrief hidrees They arent a small startup RT halletecco chrissyfarr yet their product still looks like it belongs in the s Cant believe this claim based on no evidence Epic is a private co. CEO I know what we spend. mdweinberg bobkocher Totally agree RT eramirez Ive seen this work mature firsthand. We need more public health communication campaigns meeting people where they are. https RT cmrherder Stealth antimarketing for public health CC arcattapan haronba vafbento mostly premature births can be M RT theresamaloney Obamacare architect BobKocher on what could happen under new administration by chrissyfarr My latest These antitobacco campaigners are targeting hipsters in bars and its working gt publichealth sameasiteverwaz yah. Telemedicine coaching from experts lactation nutrition OB GYNs etc seem like a start. So many HR folks tell me pregnancy is or cost. Employers are a major digital health customer. Where are the VCbacked companies RT ddiamond Multiple reports that Trump has officially picked Tom Price Georgia doctor House Budget Chair and very antiObamacare as RT ddiamond If youre a liberal the pick of Verma whos crafted plans that Dems supported is as good as you could hope for. RT planetmoney After earning an MD shes headed back to school to become a nurse RT statesdj razibkhan chrissyfarr Are these services are still reporting that African Americans have Egyptian Royal ancestry Always RT osmanrashid My interview NBC about science and elections Thanks to qhardy chrissyfarr ScottMcGrew blue RT razibkhan chrissyfarr well the science isnt make believe. but the precision of the estimate is taken way too seriously by customers Mustread by my editor mbaram Not Quite DrainTheSwamp A Running List Of Lobbyists On Trumps Transition Team razibkhan andMe Yes as a Brit amp former historian I can see how this is problematic razibkhan andMe Problematic in some ways to distinguish say British and Scandinavian in context of Viking invasions razibkhan Yeah Ive never rely understood that razibkhan Really good point Thx. razibkhan Oh makes sense but do most ancestral services even go into that level of depth Southern European vs. Western e.g. razibkhan say more RodrigoATCG Hah love it Was that a surprising result ERamosSD We should chat I would love to take about how this is changing convos within families latent racism The opposite .LizSegran are compiling a list of innovations just for women including health. What have you personally loved this yr No clients. GenCounsNews Fascinating. Would love to chat. Those who have used andMe Ancestry etc. what did it mean for you to find out that you have some ancestry that you didnt expect RT nversel Who want to talk to me about how stcenturycures affects healthIT If you want my attention dont invite me to cover something that youve lined up a handful of other outlets for. Not how I can add value. StuartBlitz Genomics cos cant provide any. Only of cases will yield actionable info when the patient is relatively healthy spwells Ah dunno yet. Good topic Theres a real chance for the cancer moonshot to get funding from Congress even if Trump isnt a fan tolles Big issue is in the interpretation which Ive definitely explored. chrissyfarr I mean sequencing whole genomeexome will be a really big year for companies trying to make personal genomics a thing. Itll be a challenge w actionable info so limited. gostini FastCompany Thank you RT JohnOroMD Companies are harnessing DNA for insights into ancestry health risks and more by chrissyfarr v Proud to be on this team gt FastCompany is named AdWeeks business magazine of the year adverbmc RT PaulEWalsh Excited to be part of this IBM is using weather data to help predict asthma attacks by chrissyfa What music do surgeons listen to while they operate cch SopanDeb should be. Point is that desire to appear balanced can lead to misrepresentation of an issue ChrisSaad headlines today that Trump says he would have won popular vote if millions hadnt voted illegally. No evidence of that. RT ProPublica We saw no evidence that undocumented immigrants voted illegally. rajnijjer some news outlets dont want to lose access perhaps cch SopanDeb person X says vaccines are bad. Person Y says theyre fine. Reader erroneously thinks oh opinion is split First week of journalism ethics class Not reporting inaccurate statements as facts bc an official said them RT mlcalderone How a news organization should not frame Trumps completely bogus claim in headline. RT NateSilver This is turning me in favor of the recount. The peacefultransitionofpower playbook doesnt usually include taunting y RT jeffjarvis Even worse the second is about getting duped into spreading propaganda and lies. Thats not journalism. Obama come to TEDMED. Its around the corner. RT Blendle Product personalization cant get any more personal than your DNA. Cool read from FastCompanys chrissyfarr RT JeffreyPfeffer Theranos is more typical than we like to think. A fabulous piece on the power of myth. RT DrSidMukherjee Just started on documentary THEGENE w KenBurns. Huge territory... from eugenics to geneenvironment nccomfort mat RT nxthompson Received most Presidential votes in US history black man white woman gt white men RT statnews Brazilian researchers have devised a way to immerse parents in VirtualReality visualizations of their unborn babies A special person in so many ways. A world of difference in these responses RT RSFlinn And most view their job as trying to educate the public Truth be told most of the media folks I know Hardworking thoughtful take a lot of shit dealing w low job security. Not an easy path RT zalzally To aspiring physicians amp medical residents there is a high degree of need amp opportunity in the center of America for you. j If I shoot a gun will you guys trust my writing about health IT RT Ipsitv Thank you They arent. They never were. Theres not a single semidecent study to say there are bballinger Important point RT bballinger chrissyfarr Check out Figure though. Smart phones appear to be a life line for some African Americans. This is why I still dont get how smartphones are useful for sleeprelaxationmeditation counterintuitive RT ReutersScience U.S. recount effort aimed at testing election integrity Stein RT atulbutte Thanks AlexLash amp Xconomy for the opportunity to talk about Californias PrecisionMedicine efforts RT buzz Great insight in this Fred Turner interview by kimmaicutler re social media and broadcast. buzz mgsiegler kimmaicutler Fred My journalism thesis advisor RT jonathanweisman She voted for Trump in Fla. The next week she reupped her ObamaCare policy amp doesnt believe anything will change. ht RT ahier Risk of Alzheimers declined in US btwn via JAMAInternalMedWhy educationVid RT dinglemichael Companies are harnessing DNA for insights into ancestry health risks and more by chrissyfarr RT SierraMagazine Presenting the greenest colleges in America. CoolSchools askmanny U.K. Happy Thanksgiving Twitterverse. This is my favorite inherited American holiday. RT ErinLAlbert Companies are harnessing DNA for insights into ancestry health risks and more by chrissyfarr vi edzitron jordoncloud can you imagine a CEO pitching a VC like that. Dear purse strings... edzitron jordoncloud dear journalist edzitron jordoncloud yah Ive seen it from PR shops across the board its super obvious tvladeck true story. So often it messes up too so you get emails addressed to Jim or Bob edzitron so dehumanizing RT leylblack PR colleagues take note. More collaborative storytelling and deep dives. Lets be part of the solution. RT bradmerrill chrissyfarr at least half of the embargoes Ive honored have been broken by another outlet ahead of time. Melodyhill Yep but PR can steer towards direct relationships. Also hi and happy holidays to you amp hillcharlotte jordoncloud IMO List of shortsnappy bulletpoints. Whos it for Why should anyone care Whats the cost amp whos paying jayparkinson nikillinit Another q. Is anyone rocket shipping Melodyhill Ideally not by an agency or mediator at all. Direct from a CEOfounder who can clearly explain what they do amp why it matters P.S. I worked in PR for months out of grad school. Much of these practices driven by clients who want lists of commoditized news. JMignano Hah no. Doesnt serve anyone. nikillinit jayparkinson Yep. Im pretty sure its been yrs since Ive been on techmeme jayparkinson Hm. Many startups hire PR for sole purpose of funding announcements amp dont bother building relationships w journalists. RT jayparkinson The nuanced reasons why cos survive over time is far more interesting than a new startup funding announcement. Journalis JMignano All of the above why do I need to honor an embargo for a product update so a bunch of identical stories can go out same time JazzHarmonica so many PR needs to innovate in Press releases embargoes mailmerge all need to be a thing of the past. Not how journalists work anymore. Writing the kind of story that is so undervalued in world of journalism Evergreen lots of contexthistory just plain interesting. RT graphiclunarkid The British state is judging your sex life. Even conventional pornwatchers in the UK will have to be on a list. htt stephaniemlee face palm The Thanksgiving toast thatll be heard across the country sucked. Grateful its almost over. RT anahadoconnor But by all means lets go back to reviving coal now. caleweissman politicized science Blood.boiling. RT techreview When Samantha Schilit got her genome sequenced she didnt consider that her identical twin would have concerns. RT guardian Hillary Clinton urged to call for election vote recount in key states MEschRadtke interesting its a great reminder of value of NHS free contraception nursing amp social support RT MEschRadtke I was a labor amp delivery nurse for years and their story lines are spoton. One of those diseases that you think is relegated to the history books but is in fact on the rise I am seriously loving Call The Midwife. Best medical show maybe ever. RT ASlavitt Dont replace ACA with TBD. RT PaulSonnier DigitalHealth Startup myhelix Wants To Create A World Of Personal Products From Your DNA chrissyfarr RT RockHealth Were sitting down with experts next week amp bringing your Qs. What do you want to know about healthcare under Trump https RT PAFPandF A new app helps family doctors talk to families about obesity. via chrissyfarr FastCompany Need to talk to a public health expert about history of antitobacco campaigning. Reach me cfarr at fast company dot com RT maggieNYT Trump says Tim Cook from Apple called him so did Bill Gates. chrissyfarr Study here Yet another usecase for machine learning to help physicians interpret medical images this time to diagnose HCM morninggloria Genetics cloud computing RT statnews This billionaire doctor gave k to Hillary. So why was he dining with Trump over the weekend https RT jflier Make NIH great again Im afraid not. Enjoying freedom to think and write from liberty perspective post deanship. Not my usual beat but glad to see startups out there protecting seniors from financial fraud gt KaiStinchcombe hoffsbeefs mattdrange TechCrunch yes. Fair point. I met with them once amp recall target was rheumatologists. Not s of diseases RT stefaniei Insys maker of prescription fentanyl and the doctors who prescribed millions of dollars worth of it. RT mattdrange What could go wrong yoda Why thank you RT NYHammond From bloombergbna Obamacare Repeal Could Blow BillionDollar Holes in State Budgets This approach teases at the potential for VR in medical education RT JakeSherman Ben Carson said a week ago that he is not qualified to run a governmental agency. Plus why nominate a brain surgeon for H fordvox ethanjweiss realDonaldTrump but hes a talented nice person...Surely thats enough. dens BenedictEvans JeremyCliffe yes data If the Brits werent dismayed and terrified enough RT ARKgenome chrissyfarr provides an interesting overview of the consumer genomics space particularly ILMN and Helix MSNBC tonight The President of the U.S. is going to be satirized insulted made fun of. How will Trump last a day in the job jasonazghani illumina FastCompany thanks derekwalter A journalist avoiding the news... probably not my best strategy Has anyone woken up yet feeling not completely on edge RT SwiftOnSecurity BuzzFeed Took great clickbait and turned it into a news organization.Broadcast Took a news organization and turned vgjarman Its here How is it that were talking less and less about climate change in presidential debates AriMNazir CloudMedicx FastCompany nope RT signe chrissyfarr Consumer tech strangers. Physics sources. AriMNazir semi mansplaining is my favorite RT AriMNazir chrissyfarr not a female journalist but I predict direct relationship between subjects technical complexity amp mansplaining BradMcCarty hah Female journalists what topic do you write about that tends to get you the most mansplains RT ethanjweiss So what happened to the Dems didnt come out for her meme from election night RT UWComm Tech takes the place of med schools not teaching docs how to talk about weight management chrissyfarr davisliumd FastCoNews FastCompany We dont know yet its a pilot to presume theyre experimenting RT UpshotNYT Trump and Republicans in Congress say they will dump Obamacare. Then what aaroncarroll and afrakt discuss. RT FastCoNews Donald Trump just had dinner with Americas richest doctor EhmZiv DrPatSoonShiong realDonaldTrump bpolitics Yeah thatd be great RT DrPatSoonShiong Incredible honor dining wPreselect realDonaldTrump last night. He truly wants to advance healthcare for all. htt DrPatSoonShiong realDonaldTrump Does that involve repealing the ACA KPatrickAllen Im with you there RT RockHealth A world of personalized products tailored to our DNA myhelix thinks its time. consumergenomics via chrissyfarr https New competition Vice is launching a health vertical jmvldz everything is disturbing on the Internet today RT jmvldz chrissyfarr more disturbing to me is the normalization of this guy in the headline RT Ipsitv chrissyfarr FastCoNews lots of information not enough perspective...the story of modern healthcare. RT FastCompany Genetics startup Helix wants to create a world of personalized products from your DNA Now a thing Ask a doctor a question via Snapchat. SherpaaHealth is getting a q. each minute thru partnership with imkialikethecar yah they wrote the bill in AZ. But its a bigger trend than Theranos. Labs wo a doctors note. I have v. mixed feelings about this gt RT LukeDeanNif Scoop Apple is researching how iPhones can be used to monitor Parkinsons patients by chrissyfar RT afarles Get ready for personalized products tailored to your DNA. Theyre coming soon by chrissyfarr akhomenko Yes its clearly not a usecase that andMe intended... what a world we live in A few things to think about as investors make big bets on consumer genomics concerns A horrifying usecase for andMe RT PaulSonnier QuestDX to offer more directtoconsumer lab tests through MyQuest app chrissyfarr DigitalHe Wow. Guess who had dinner with Trump on Sat night to talk medical innovation Patrick SoonShiung. HT MorningeHealth politico Helixs first directtoconsumer sequencing test will be in direct competition with AncestryDNA amp andMe RT kristinluck The next wave of genomics promises to take the science far beyond its initial use by chrissyfarr RT burtrosen I had my andMe raw data analyzed resulting in diet and supplement recos. Cant wait for medicine to be based on me not c RT VeritasGenetics Thanks FastCompany chrissyfarr. Well have great news to share soon. Is now the time for consumer genomics My profile of Illuminaspinout Helix for the magazine gt DNA genomics RT MJSchulman I for one am enragedamused about Hamilton and enrageddisgusted at Trump U amp white supremacists at the exact same time. n RT AdrianChen My dispatch from the Philippines on the rise of President Rodrigo Duterte in this weeks newyorker RT BrendanNyhan Brilliant AdrianChen on how populist demagogues like Trump and Duterte exploit social media one of the best things Iv RT mollybloom Much of US has a Gannett owned newspaper. This is natl news section. This is what the country is being fed news of POTUS RT statnews Doctors to realDonaldTrump First do no harm RT drwave I do think the s are going to be what sAIresearcherme thought the s were going to be.Less happy than I thought I RT JohnTorousMD Real news is more important than ever glad we have straight shooting health tech journalists like chrissyfarr stephan RT gabrielsherman Trumps Hamilton tweet is a terrifying glimpse of how he could attempt to suppress free speech. It should be openly con RT UpshotNYT Trump wants to cut the trade deficit amp boost manufacturing but his econ policy fuels a strong dollar so lindaavey yes amp lets get a cocktail soon RT kimmaicutler Please please let someone normal be in this administration. RT seldo Having to settle a M lawsuit for fraud should be a presidencyending disaster. Keep asking why it isnt. RT HankGreelyLSJU I WAS intrigued by Thync. After top scientist left its testing stress reduction in Detroit area trailer parks. Sad htt RSFlinn hence why I get to write word stories about biomedical companies RSFlinn yes its true. It took me a long time to not be judged on that more than anything else RSFlinn FastCompany doesnt measure individual writers that way thank god Ive never been told to go forth and get more traffic RSFlinn you mean for my success as a journalist LukeDeanNif we can agree to disagree RSFlinn yeh... for this reason I dont look at my traffic LukeDeanNif Im not a vice presidential candidate Ok so we have presidentelect who considers a message of love and inclusion to be harassment RT ddiamond Its degrees warmer than normal at the North Pole Its nearly in DC Has anyone checked the temperature in Hell RT nycjim .realDonaldTrump How is it harassment to ask TrumpPence to work on behalf all of us RT TheAtlantic Who will advise Trump on science Wishing I had more access to negative study results... hard to say if something can work or not with absence of evidence. ShimCode FastCompany bobkocher its directed at all those who invested in startups off the back of ACA RT Venrock .bobkocher gives his take on the future of healthcare in FastCompany check it out RT Marcelace danielkraft bobkocher chrissyfarr FastCompany love this. Just wish moderate progress on gains was a more viable polit RT TheEyeNECIR FDA blinks on genetic testing delays action via TheEyeNECIR ShimCode FastCompany bobkocher I did ask that RT danielkraft Why This Obamacare Architect Is Worried BobKocher interviewed by chrissyfarr on future of the ACA RT EricBoehlert turns out crooked Trump Foundation is EXACTLY what DC press fantasized that Clinton Foundation was. press reax to M se President of the humble brag RT DrKhouryCDC Personal Genomic tests We really have a perfect storm of insufficient data and insufficient competence. RT DKThomp I think jwherrman gets the fake news issue exactly right Not good.... Underregulated LDTs shalt live another day I was in NY for a biz meeting am. I scanned the room amp a stranger said Tinder side of the cafe is over there RT AndreyOstrovsky chrissyfarr TheEconomist we need better story telling so patientsvoters understand the actual benefit they receive Tech has a platform problem and always has. Makes it too easy to deny responsibility. RT michikokakutani NYT Editorial Board Jeff Sessions as Attorney General An Insult to Justice. via nytopinion RT carolynryan Amen RT raphdamico chrissyfarr Go deep but explain in ways anyone can understand. We need truths that travel as far as convenient lies. JohnWilson RT leylblack Never been a more urgent need for real journalism and many people are starting to realize this. RT AaronFF Try using the urge to look at your phone as a reminder to become present. JohnWilson yes RT BradMcCarty chrissyfarr You keep doing good work. You do journalism because there will always be a thirst for it. Reflecting on what it means to be a journalist at a time of declining biz models Trump fake news Gawker. How do we respond Important info for couples RT CarolineYLChen This argument seems complicated. More simple Holmes has majority ownership of co. swartzgirl nice RT bobkocher My QampA on the ACA policy options and uncertainty. by chrissyfarr via FastCompany hnnhlvy TheEconomist anything but single payer right RT hnnhlvy chrissyfarr TheEconomist Makes ACA uncertainty even more upsetting. Our healthcare system should be considered a crisis amp tr RT HankGreelyLSJU More on UK cryo. Personally I dont believe in having false hope except maybe in sports but I think thats just a per RT statnews Peer reviewers put in . million hours in roughly years worth of reviewing according to a new study hnnhlvy TheEconomist I totally agree esp in combo with CDC report about declining life expectancy for middle age Americans RT Breaking DEVELOPING Mysterious foam blob taking over streets near airport in Santa Clara Calif. KTVU Photos Even top health executives will be patients at some point in their lives. It could be a wake up call For every ACA potential meltdown story Im trying to write balanced pieces about medical innovation. newrule POLITICOPro POLITICOPulse RepTomPrice jenhab how about BobbyJindal KatieS new study people called Mike are most likely to be republican RT KatieS All white men. Lots of Mikes. Not one unifierMike PenceSteve BannonReince PriebusJeff SessionsMike FlynnMike PompeoMik judywang Stress taking its toll for sure Fave this tweet if youve considered going to therapy during or in the aftermath of this election RT hjsoch This Surgeon Says He Can Revolutionize Operations With Magnets RT rebeccaplevin A Harvardaffiliated psychotherapist recommends making these mindful muffins to cope with election stress RT ProPublica Hate crimes are up but the government cant keep track of them. So were going to start. RT mattdpearce Whens the last time you saw a Klan leader getting excited by an Attorney General appointment RT stilenius What Silicon Valley Wants From The Trump White House FastCompany vida innovation mdweinberg and MA RT mdweinberg chrissyfarr Well to be optimistic for a sec this election could usher in more valuebased payment especially through Me RT DrLeslieSaxon Scoop Apple is researching how iPhones can be used to monitor Parkinsons patients by chrissyf RT FastCoNews Report The chronically ill were most susceptible to Trumps message RT Jason clearly JohnCarreyrou is responsible for theranos downfall... eholmes was about to solve it all before he you know wr THIS IS THE KEY The ill multiple chronic disease may have been particularly susceptible to Mr Trumps message. nxpatel Good point RT nxpatel chrissyfarr GOP thinks CMMI experiments have been poorly budgetedmanaged say its an easy cut to save moneyappeal to fisca nxpatel I dont get how its partisan RT LindaPMD Weve been through the digitization of health care. Now were going to make being a patient a new experience. nxpatel Yes but whats going to happen to CMMI RT glfceo . chrissyfarr biz process efficiencies in healthcare I started my company when was diagnosed with cancer as a patient u se The elephant in the room with all my medical innovation stories is that the incentive structures are broken. Whos gonna pay sarahjeong Yes thats always the answer in HC too RT home I have an idea hire some experienced human journalists instead chrissyfarr interoperability CEO of health IT giant Center after being diagnosed with cancer The EHR needs to make medicine faster and safer RT tinternational I live on a very fixed income with no margin of error for having to spend about month on drugs Im getting the sense that JPM will be especially interesting this year Trump doesnt seem to care about policy but he does care about public opinion. That could be a silver lining. CIgenomics probably a lot. I wonder how Medicare will fare RT Jewelshepard chrissyfarr thanks for an enjoyable and informative read RT thetylerhayes You dont need multivitamins or fishoils RT DanSlate Why this Obamacare architect is worried by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT ethanjweiss This is great My interview with bobkocher a key architect of the Affordable Care Act. sweatshopking wow I cant even imagine how that must be like... does make me happy tho that shes part of next generation RT sweatshopking chrissyfarr idkwtf to do. This environment is a nightmare. My daughter in particular is a passionate environmentalist. sweatshopking tell her we need her more then ever RT nikillinit CalPERs considering doing direct investments and cutting out GPs. Will direct VC arm be considered at some point sweatshopking i guess we can blame the baby boomers RT RyanLizza Reince remains only Trump appointee not plagued by credible allegations of bigotry. RT dsgold Agreed. And clearly its happening all over the west not just in the U.S. dsgold so many th ce parallels I studied colonial history amp revolutions jacquimiller yes kinda important to be thinking about planet especially now dsgold shift to right precipitated by worsening income inequality fears about techtrade money in politics. Symptom fear of other. RT dsgold chrissyfarr No I think youre in very good company. I imagine surreal will emerge as one among many memes. yoda Spectacles they did not choose actual reality Is it just me or does anyone else think about what future generations or historians will write about this time RT jjdharmaraj I would imagine this type of surgery would allow for a faster recovery in addition to the lower cost RT larrylevitt Insurance is math. These jobs amp medical conditions are associated with higher health care costs so insurers want to avoi RT larrylevitt If youve forgotten what a preexisting condition is heres a list of conditions that got you rejected in one preACA in mims Ive come to believe that these tweets have no effect RT sciam The DNA in seawater can reveal the diversity and abundance of fish species living in ocean waters Podca RT GeorgeTakei A Trump spokesperson named the Internment as precedent for a Muslim registry. Here are my thoughts. RT joemfbrown Lotta hate mail about our climate change covgwhich means were reaching people. So... expect even more climate change stor RT NonStopInnovate Are magnets the next frontier in surgery by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT RSFlinn ARM has prescription for medical devices for chronic conditions RT LMacnaughtan New fda category magnetic surgery. Single entry point. healthcare RT christopherzara Magnets chrissyfarr cc aaronpaul Oscar responds to concerns that itll fail if ACA is repealed RT HelenBranswell You know youre been a science reporter for awhile when you intend to type jeans and it come out genes. RT FrankSDavid Every medtech CEO amp entrepreneur should memorize this paragraph in chrissyfarrs new piece. htt dariustahir Read story My latest feature is on surgical innovation if you need a break from reading about Trump gt ethanjweiss JonathanHirsch thats why wellness is so hot amp chronic disease isnt ethanjweiss JonathanHirsch dont agree with non existent but relevance is exception rather than rule RT Reuters .Reuters poll finds healthcare is the top issue Americans want Donald Trump to address in his first days Show me the research. RT mdweinberg We will fight for every Californian that has gained coverage through the Affordable Care Act dredhernandez CoveredCA RT nikillinit This is another critical point. Healthcare experiments are long and the beginning is bound to be bumpy esp without prev RT JasonFebery Trump is considering Scott who oversaw largest Medicare fraud in history for HHS Secretary. You cant make this up https RT BobDohertyACP Another great explanation from sarahkliff on why Obamacare repeal and delay wont work via Very true. Tech companies are still figuring out how to generate evidencebases for health care projects. kaelinbrewster could work chiizhao JMSchwartz That could work although this story is more about abdominal surgery tx frankrebecca Hah. For story research although I am actually recovering from sinus surgery... Any surgeons out there Please DM me ASAP. RT nikillinit I wrote about the trends that are shaping genomics and ways to understand opportunities in the space via cbinsights https Writing about a medicaltech startup that I was genuinely floored by. Interestingly product was developed in Chile not Silicon Valley. shaherose trywhim evecpeters Hey Eve RT RockHealth Apple is looking into how its devices may be used to monitor Parkinsons patients in real time reports chrissyfarr https Best advice I ever got from a veteran reporter Have a specialty so you know enough to be dangerous. EstherWojcicki We met once I believe when I was at Stanford J school amp writing about ed. You were teaching a journo class to high schoolers varund rborkows Thanks. JasonUkman Just wow. How did I miss this story Must read rborkows My inclination is snake oil but im keeping an open mind rborkows Im pretty sure thats happening. Im writing a whole series about this v. topic socalled scientific wellness Cant believe how many personalized vitamin delivery startups there are when the science is iffy at best. BradMcCarty I hear that a lot... or sisters. Coworking with my mom ReferencePlease who is also a writer. Im working on medicinerelated stories shes on assignment for Eater RT jonfavs Dear Trump voter I came across this thoroughly reported news story you might find interesting. RT SecBurwell In rural communities the uninsured rate has dropped . Lets build on this progress. Lets help more rural Americans ge Very cool RT FastCoNews andMe president Andy Page is stepping down MHbherman chadterhune Yes it makes no sense. RT MHbherman CEO of Blue Shield of CA tells chadterhune that Trumps idea for sale of insurance across state lines is nonsense. RT EricTopol Single circulating tumor cell DNA and RNA sequencing broadinstitute ScienceTM RT DrJRose EHR has made my practice so much better and more efficient allowing me to treat patients more effectively. said NO DOCTOR JGfromOC reminded of story I did on Uber way back on drivers canceling on users with service animals. Bad for Uber PR good for public JGfromOC sometimes. Often the best stories dont involve a partnership tho esp. a pursuit of truth RT JoeBabaian This matters Apple researching how iPhones can be used to monitor Parkinsons patients DigitalHealth c nickisnpdx https JGfromOC yeh but its your messaging which can be v loosely based on reality and omits key facts JGfromOC you should... its lazy as hell and promotes hype that isnt good for the public JGfromOC that makes me sad. And youre probably finding that a lot of writers will basically copy and paste the press release RT JGfromOC chrissyfarr PR is having challenges with this too... less good news outlets driving us to become our own media source in a s antonioregalado PearlF JesseDraper JohnCarreyrou sometimes execs refuse to talk despite your best efforts RT antonioregalado Draper venture capital clan and Theranos investors goes after WSJ reporter. see thread. http JGfromOC yes Apparently Im living in a world where facts have gone out of favor SleepyHeadCtrl its not one person or groups fault its a systemic issue JGfromOC the low ceiling lack of opportunities to get promoted the stress etc chrissyfarr it aint easy. Ive been threatened with lawsuits more than once including from Theranos One big challenge for accountability journalism Not enough mentorship for young reporters w so many veterans flocking to corporate PR RT JuddLegum . Trump will be president. Ship has sailed. But we can make sure we do everything possible to hold him accountable. https RT digiphile Fake news matters but journalists please put more attention on voter suppression in Election RT UpshotNYT The unpopular parts of Obamacare make the popular parts work. RT williamalden Finally read the new JohnCarreyrou story. Fraud is not a trade secret has to be the defining quote of this boom. https RT FastCompany Apple is researching how iPhones can be used to monitor Parkinsons patients RT jayparkinson As a physician we owe it to our patients to be conscious of their costs. Ignorance bankrupts. Its unethical. RT CatchTheBaby MT DVNJr Fraud is not a trade secret. A phenomenal WSJ piece about the Theranos whistleblower RT LizHassan Apple is researching how iPhones can be used to monitor Parkinsons patients by chrissyfarr via F dmaccannell jgreid DShaywitz google glass Gotta follow the missteps too dmaccannell jgreid DShaywitz thats how I think about it. Im actually lucky in getting time to write long amp thorough. Not click bait. jgreid RSFlinn kyleserikawa DShaywitz KQED it has in some cases. Potential is there. Hard to explain in so few characters. dmaccannell Techmeme Apple hired Stephen friend out of Sage amp sources say this is a big priority for him to continue this work RSFlinn kyleserikawa DShaywitz jgreid KQED yes. Seeing a doc every months is not enough. Meds can be off. Mobile monitoring is huge RSFlinn kyleserikawa DShaywitz jgreid KQED yep In other news looks like Ill be going to my first tedmed in a few weeks. Who else is going jgreid DShaywitz if he lives for another decade it would be a story thinkmariya FastCompany great q. jgreid DShaywitz hah Heres my yo cat that should have been included jgreid DShaywitz you are so right RT jgreid chrissyfarr DShaywitz Everything in science is promising right up until it is quietly abandoned wildly successful or someth kyleserikawa DShaywitz jgreid KQED yes we often dont DShaywitz jgreid yes but not in apples case. Everything is secretive like this project. IBM amp players like that a diff story kyleserikawa DShaywitz jgreid KQED ps you can also clearly couch how early something is kyleserikawa DShaywitz jgreid KQED youre asking some big philosophical qs that I think about too DShaywitz jgreid KQED yes so we have to follow up. These things take time as u know but experts I spoke to say this is promising DShaywitz jgreid KQED yes. But it depends on where you work amp the biz model DShaywitz jgreid KQED interesting Tho I hardly think that tech cos w resources doing research on behalf of Parkinsons patients counts jgreid DShaywitz if its of public interest its news. This might not be to u but is to others thats my job DShaywitz strongly disagree Scoop from me Apple is exploring how its devices can be used to monitor Parkinsons patients tip Techmeme RT vseeanne When your job depends it feels safer to go with the big guys problem is they carry around tech amp corporate baggage https JohnTorousMD stephaniemlee StephLBaum Thanks RT MediaBot recode He will remain on the board of the personal genomics company. Andy Page who has been in his role since RT MarcieBianco Theres a historical pattern to go where the power is Heres Why White Women Voted For Trump RT MogulAzam chrissyfarr No one gets fired for buying IBM same mentality I actually see EPIC being more of a problem with large hospita severud wirednot well Im trying with my medical reporting severud wirednot Sorry to hear that RT dariustahir statesdj chrissyfarr there was a great study of Californian OBGYNs theyre much less likely to get Csections. RT glfceo chrissyfarr FastCompany I dream abt days when I will be treated by Watson humanly impossible analyze all the data requi aexm Probably statesdj Good point RT aexm chrissyfarr In BB SaaS the main selling point of big box vendors vs. startups is asking prospect if younger company will be aro RT statesdj chrissyfarr Other MDs generally good pts understand issues amp language. Its families w unrealistic expectations that are th Super glad to hear that so many contactsfriends are buying news subscriptions. Such an important time for journalism. Also as has been pointed out to me hospitals are choosing the larger vendors like GE Cerner. Some say that doesnt bode well for startups. There is a lot of concern from the public amp clinicians that well be developing things tech to replace doctors. RT LizFabry chrissyfarr Better question Patients which physicians are worst to deal with Primary Care Surgeons or the Specialist chrissyfarr cc JennyAGold Doctors which of these groups make for the most challenging patients Ive been meeting a lot of experts of late in the world of Alzheimers. I find this line of research fascinating RT FastCompany Paging Dr. Algorithm generalelectric and UCSF bring machine learning to radiology Machine learning algorithms G.E. radiology UCSF some interesting examples here RT GEHealthcare Paging Dr. Algorithm gehealthcare ucsf Bring Machine Learning To Radiology via chrissyfarr c RT geetadayal Ugh. Seriously Wired RT mloxton Good question any thoughts hitsm hcldr hcbiz Make Americas health care great again. Was it ever that great if werent part of the When John Sculley was running Apple few would have believed that it would someday play in health chrissyfarr cc RuthReader johnpaul As a diehard cat lover I volunteer to write the counter argument timcaynes Check in with me tomorrow and ill have a story for u RT RockHealth things you need to know about Trumpcarea guide to the Presidentelects efforts to make healthcare great again. https PsycleDoc Hah. I think just expressing split among specialty of those who welcome it vs. those who are resisting. Sweet spot is middle. RT RSFlinn Patients are experts in all the broken things in the healthcare system says claudiawilliams at FCPC Fascinating to talk to a radiologist this morning about the nextgeneration of clinical decision support for medical imaging. Its coming. yossy Ah yes. Surprises all round. Im ashamed at how much time I spent consuming media that assured a Clinton win hrs. And how little on understanding Trump support. Stuck at JFK if anyone has any good longreads or podcast suggestions RT amalec We are a great nation but have our weaknesses. healthcare more than any other issue exposes those weaknesses. RT milansteskal Emotions aside there is still a lot of work and opportunities ahead healthcare innovation RT ASlavitt Cant wait for all the articles like this to reemerge reminding us what the ACA actually does. RT healthblawg Take a deep breath and carry on hcinno healthcon ConnectHealth digitalhealth healthpolicy hcldr HITsm RT JuddLegum . Important Trump said he would avoid conflict between his business and govt by turning his businesses over to his childr RT sarahkliff For all of Twitters faults it was the reason I was able to write this story. Huge thanks to those who reached out. https RT fordvox Crying in the hallways at the CDC... How should healthtech startups respond to the election A call to action must read by healthblawg RT jayparkinson When a healthcare ship has yrs to turn how can we ever expect sustained decadeslong progress needed to truly make RT stephaniemlee Reid Hoffman of LinkedIn is donating m to the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub at UCSFStanfordCal and joining its board http RT ArielleDRoss ...When scientists make up data they tend to do so in a way thats too smooth. .reveal invited on a White Nationalist to speak about his support for Trump. These are the podcast episodes on my feed now. If Facebook is any indication this is a result that has jogged my Silicon Valley network out of complacency RT sangerkatz Few new things in this Trump health policy rundown high risk pools modernize Medicare RT FastCompany Will million Americans soon lose their health insurance RT Rosen HISTORY OF US PRESIDENTS Bipartisan enough Price transparency Chronic disease prevention Shift to valuebased care Precision medicine RT izconroy chrissyfarr price transparency is also fairly bipartisan albeit with different motivations just look at Floridas recent Health startups are v. tied to policy. This level of uncertainty could have consequences gt RT mloxton chrissyfarr good question but injury and disease data more reliable and follow more predictable pathways models have more v Now wouldnt be the greatest time to email me about stuff that isnt related to the election. justinlmitchell Yes raised money ddiamond Yep RT nytimes Martin Shkreli owns the sole copy of a WuTang Clan album. He released parts of it to celebrate Donald Trumps win. RT DISSATK Its unclear how insurance tech startups like OscarHealth amp StrideHealth will fare. by chrissyfarr RT SkipFleshman Some initial thoughts on what the Trump Presidency means for ObamaCare and digitalhealth by ch Health company in the most awkward position right now Oscar. Made through promise of ACA. Cofounder Josh Kushner is Trumps inlaw. If predictive analytics could be so off about the election how about in other applications. Say health insurance My latest Will Million Americans Soon Lose Their Health Insurance Whats the impact for healthtech startups RT nickbilton Hillary didnt lose because the Republicans showed up. She lost because the Democrats didnt show up. Im getting a lot of feedback that Precision Medicine is a bipartisan enough issue. So theres that. RT rbbrenner .Sulliview issues call to action for journalists RT NewYorker With Donald Trump coal wins planet loses RT NewYorker The election of Donald Trump to the Presidency is nothing less than a tragedy for America David Remnick writes. RT SethMacFarlane A climatedenying antiequality antireproductive rights establishment has been installed so yes were allowed our RT FortuneMagazine How Silicon Valleys love of disruption fostered Trumps presidency RT stephaniemlee tfw you realize in a sleepless stupor this also happened Californians Speed Up The Death Penalty RT AsteadWH Stop telling ppl theyll be okay. There are a lot of people in this country that Donald Trump himself has promised wont be A crowd of thousands outside Trump Tower Donald Trump is not my president. chrissyfarr Donald trump go away. Racist sexist anti gay. Sitting in an Uber surrounded by protestors singing Donald Trump has got to go. .mdweinberg If we go back and relitigate basic rights and health financing structures thats terrible for medical innovations. RT Slate The start of the end for environmental protections. RT mcgd I love the selfappointed Mayors of Silicon Valley speaking up for the industry as if we all had a meeting to agree on anything. RT jilldruschke chrissyfarr losing insurance sugarcoats it. They will lose access to medications financial stability and their lives. Everyone Ive spoken to today is convinced that ACA will be repealed and millions will lose health insurance in the next few years RT berthacoombs .CleClinicMD CEO Toby Cosgrove on CNBCClosingBell I think youre going to see a shrinking unraveling of the ACA but Confidence is high that companies can continue to price gough patients Online therapy app TalkSpace has experienced a X spike in sales this morning not surprising RT JillFilipovic The KKK is celebrating white hoods and all on a bridge in North Carolina. What have we done. What will happen with Precision Medicine Is this something that a Trump administration cares about SpatulaPete damn youre right BradMcCarty Ill dig up a piece I wrote on that a while back for you Furiously rereading This is that episode of Black Mirror where social media helped a reality TV star get elected president. Except you cant turn it off. DrMacalester amazonbooks I havent thanks Is this real RT SkyNews When he becomes US President a number of voters are afraid of what realDonaldTrump will do USelection RT bijans Healthcare reporters I feel for you guys in coming days. What the hell can you write when there are no policy specifics RT AndyBiotech Holy smoke chart of ElectionNight ... RT mkramer PLEASE SHOW ME MORE NEWS AND INFORMATION FROM PEOPLE EXACTLY LIKE ME SOCIAL MEDIA. RT sgourley . prediction model passively looking at the data and to what happens. manipulation model deploy bots hacked emails f RT jasonpontin Im off to bed. The next president if he does as he said will appoint Justices who will overturn Roe vs Wade and will I say Ive been living in America for years. No Ive been living in Northern California. RT vcolliver What does open unenrollment look like RT adamfeuerstein As worried and sick I feel right now Im a white guy. I feel even worse and scared for every minority and immigrant i RT juliaioffe Pollsters please retire. RT medriscoll Well need it. eramirez i dont know how I will get up in the morning RT eramirez chrissyfarr Im sorry you may have to cover the downfall of healthcare in the US. We thought it couldnt get worse but it m A historic victory for made up shit RT ThePlumLineGS Why would readers ever believe anything those of us who write about politics say ever again RT anahadoconnor If trump wins then Obamacare is pretty much toast ... The moment when we all realize were living in a filter bubble RT ashleymayer Im starting to resent my wine for being red. RT arctictony When being a normal decent fucking human being makes you part of a resistance movement RT markcritch The Canadian Immigration site just crashed. True story. Everybody shove over one. ElectionNight RT bradheath Whitest U.S. counties are voting for Trump by an astonishing and unprecedented margin. RT danacfinley If you want to understand why rape culture is alive in the USA its because Trump can admit to sexual assault amp still get RT emilynussbaum People I know are talking about how to cope with this with their kids espec girls. Because its terrible but you dont If Trump wins millions could lose health insurance. And thats just the beginning. RT charlesornstein What happens to ACOs drug prices abortion ACA Medicaid expansion zackwhittaker brexit Im really struggling to come up with a silver lining here. Wishing CNN would cut to a break to remind us take a deep breath and meditate My brother in England days ago Trump will win RT tgoetz This doesnt make me feel better Nick. RT greenberg OH MY GOD VERIZON ELECTION NIGHT IS THE WORST TIME FOR THIS ADVERTISEMENT. RT eboldy Hospital admissions will be historically high. Productivity in offices across America tomorrow will be historically low RT jyarow Markets tanking harder. Im having Brexit flashbacks RT TheEconomist Can Britain continue to thrive as a hotspot for life sciences after Brexit RT RockHealth Wikipedia health pageswidely used often unreliable. Do health professionals have a duty to improve their accuracy https RT healthblawg years after draft guidance years after public hearing the latest from FDA on FDAsm hcsm RT sciencemagazine Can any idiot use the CRISPR geneediting tool Our intrepid reporter gives it a shot Can you communicate drug risk in characters or less FDA is studying pharma amp social media ht statnews Just learned that a lot of folks on twitter want me to throw stones at Donald Trump caleweissman in bed with industrial strength ear plugs My hotel is a stones throw from Trump Tower RT megtirrell How could today affect your medicine and how you pay for it New SignalPod special for Election Day Written by my friend bekahgrant who volunteers at RAINNs hotline. In recent weeks queues have jumped Psychiatrists say the fear is running deep on both sides of the aisle cc JohnTorousMD RT lshankman chrissyfarr I almost cried today knowing it will at least be over tomorrow night... some sense of relief in theory Fave this tweet if you are walking around today with a feeling of anxietydiscomfortjitters election RT charlesornstein Bipartisanship ChuckGrassley and elizabethforma are working together to lower the cost of hearing aids. KennethBaer It would be super sketchy if the company wanted its employees to campaign for one party v another Are any companies out there paying travel expenses for employees to campaign in swing states cfarratfastcompanydotcom RT ArmstrongDrew Heres a reminder of what to expect w biotechpharma stocks and the election results RT NYTHealth Is there really a doctor shortage or are medical professionals being used inefficiently Are pantsuit sales up RT clue Censorship leads to stigma and prevents access to accurate information. via chrissyfarr RT StefSimanowitz Rope. Tree. Journalist. Trump supporter in Minnesota wears tshirt advocating lynching of journalists ReutersPoliti RT htwuk Please share with us Any examples of how male bias in healthcare tech has resulted in a poor healthcare product design or e RT FastCompany Hey Facebook Lets have a vagina dialogue Just overheard this conversation at a Marshalls in rural Mass Dont listen to them. Youre just as American as anyone else. Slapped wrists for privacy law breakers Fitbit Jawbone Garmin and Mio Busy doctor vgul RuthReader Motivate them with cat gifs RuthReader My colleague RuthReader trained her cat to use the toilet. I am in awe. RT RockHealth FF A few TopDH honoreesColorGenomics chrissyfarr danielkraft MangoHealth GEVentures Vote for https RT ASlavitt NEW My very frank talk to drug industry on innovation amp drug costs last night. RT carl Whats next for precision medicine by chrissyfarr via FastCompany RT FastCoNews Nestle partners with Aimmune on food allergy research RT RosePastore Berkeley changed comp sci course name to The Beauty amp Joy of Computing and more women enrolled says Facebooks Reg RT ASlavitt At CMS we put patients first.Feds approve Ys diabetes program despite drug maker opposition We need more diversity in how we choose problems says Facebooks Regina Dugan. Its essential to have different voices in room. FCNY Interviewing womens health executives behind the legalizeV campaign nearby FCNY video to come RT jayparkinson A perfect illustration that health and medical are two separate things worlds apart. 