a dots. New woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial Sarahlikesfoodd department so that we may improve our services. Thank you. Sarahlikesfoodd sizes Please note your comments have been shared with the relevant Sarahlikesfoodd Hello Sarah we can confirm that this item ref is currently available online in all abrahaammusica a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio al cliente ZARA Care en Facebook. Muchas gracias. abrahaammusica Esperamos que vuelva a visitar nuestra pgina web muy pronto. Para futuras consultas estamos a su disposicin abrahaammusica Hola Abraham. Gracias por los comentarios que nos ha hecho llegar. inmarincon con ms datos sobre lo sucedido como cundo ha sucedido esto. Gracias. inmarincon Hola. Sentimos lo que nos comentas. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care BrittyKerr Hi please DM us further details regarding your query so we may better assist you. Thanks. pbells replenished. We apologise for the inconvenience caused. Thank you. pbells Hello thank you for your product query. Please be advised that the desired item is sold out and will not be gentlefoot queries please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. gentlefoot to the relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. For future gentlefoot Hi James we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm we have forwarded your comments izarobyn Hi thanks for contacting us. Please send a DM with your order number so we may look into it. Thanks. AlexLianopoulos Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details order number so we can review it. Thanks. Wowagurl Hi hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. IamLauraT Hi Laura please be advised that we are able to receive Direct Messages. We can confirm that we are now following you. Thank you. LydiaTaylor please refer to our Zara Care account Thank you. LydiaTaylor pertaining area as this helps us to improve our services. For future queries LydiaTaylor Hi Lydia we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm we have forwarded your comments to the Southern air New Woman editorial now available in our stores and online zarawoman zaraeditorial tashdoherty including your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. IamLauraT or online. If online please DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. IamLauraT Hi Laura thank you for contacting us. We kindly ask you to confirm whether the item was purchased instore TristinAndTyler Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us via Zara Care for future queries. Thanks kizerandbender Hi please be advised that our DM is open for all customer service inquiries via our ZaraCare account. Thanks. Sarahlikesfoodd or the reference number of the item you are enquiring so that we may further assist you. Thank you. Sarahlikesfoodd Hello Sarah we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We kindly ask you to DM us a picture SAFDeluxe online Thank you. SAFDeluxe Hi Sarah thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is currently available nicolelatchana You can find it below the barcode on the inner labels of the item. Thank you. nicolelatchana Hi Nicole please provide us with the reference number of the item to be able to assist you. MaiSylv Zara Care account Thank you. MaiSylv assess it and advise you accordingly. For future queries please refer to our MaiSylv kindly advise you to visit your local Zara store at your earliest convenience where a senior staff member will be able MaiSylv Hi Maisie we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. We sarahedeloneill We will gladly assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. sarahedeloneill Hi Sarah kindly DM us the items full reference number located on the inner label below the barcode. fosngo We zullen u dan informeren. Bedankt. fosngo Hi stuurt u ons alstublieft het referentie nummer van het artikel in een DM. U kunt dit vinden op het kaartje onder de barcode. dejavierlopez Hola Javier. Sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. vnlvn so we may assist you further. Thank you. vnlvn Hello please send us a DM with more details to our ZARA Care account and confirm also the country you are contacting us from InfoVeganized Hola Yasira. Por favor indcanos la referencia de la prenda para poder darte ms informacin. Muchas gracias. Dress with fringes for a southern air Woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial TrevorJarvis Hi Trevor we certainly regret your disappointment. Please DM us further details so we can look into it on our end. Thanks. MsAndreaS Hi Andie thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us your inquiry through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Kids girls editorial Play laugh its a summer ride zarakids zaraeditorial TheSikhest managing your case details. They will be in touch with you shortly. Thank you for your understanding. TheSikhest Hi we honestly apologise for any inconvenience caused. Our system records indicate the relevant Store Team is already sarahkarver on the inner label below the barcode to assist you with your enquiry.Thank you. sarahkarver Hi Sarah please send us a DM with the reference number of the item which can be found LauraChiche politique nous vous invitons consulter le site dInditex Merci. LauraChiche Bonjour Laura ce compte est destin exclusivement au service client. Pour de plus amples informations concernant notre wyldeclifford department we will update you once further details become available. Thank you. wyldeclifford Hi Niamh thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your query to the corresponding Lets go for a summer ride. Kids girls editorial zarakids zaraeditorial mrrynomite must follow the stringent requirements of our Code of Conduct. Kind regards. mrrynomite Hi Ryan this Tshirt was made by OYKUSU TEKSTIL in Izmir Turkey. All the factories we work with silviasilva the stringent requirements of our Code of Conduct. Kind regards. silviasilva Hi Silvia this dress was made by ALAE WELTMARK SARL in Tanger Morocco. All the factories we work with must follow rachelwalkerr or instore within the returns period month from the date of shipment. Thank you. rachelwalkerr the relevant department as this helps us to improve our services. Please note that you may return your item via online rachelwalkerr Hello Rachel we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that your feedback has been shared with Keelyroseee pertaining area as our customers experience is important to us. Thanks for taking the time to pass on your feedback. Keelyroseee Hi Keely we truly appreciate such positive feedback and enthusiasm. We have now forwarded your comments to the EvaVeraDesign We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. EvaVeraDesign Hi Eva please DM us the items full reference number which is located on the inner label below the barcode. megpratty in the sizes M and L We hope this information is useful to you. Thank you. megpratty Hello Megan thank you for your recent query. We can confirm that this item ref is currently available online xxxxxxxxxoxxx cdigo na etiqueta interior debaixo do cdigo de barras. A nossa equipa dar o devido seguimento sua consulta. xxxxxxxxxoxxx Ol. Por favor envienos uma mensagem privada com a referncia completa do artigo a ZARA Care. Poder encontrar este DaniSan novedades de la web. Recuerda que para futuras consultas estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. DaniSan Gracias. El artculo que nos indicas est agotado ya que pertenece a una temporada pasada. Te sugerimos que revises las silviaaromano Hola Silvia. Por favor indcanos la referencia de la prenda para poder darte ms informacin. Muchas gracias. megpratty relevant department and will contact you shortly with an update. Thank you. megpratty Hello thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we have forwarded your query to the DaniSan Hola. Confrmanos por favor el pas desde el que nos ests contactando para poder ayudarte. Gracias. Lablahblahblah Hola Marianna. Por favor indcanos la referencia de la prenda para poder darte ms informacin. Gracias. worldfinds We will gladly assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. worldfinds Hello kindly DM us the items full reference number located on the inner label below the barcode. Time for fun its sunny. Kids girls new editorial zaraeditorial zarakids whodreamedit back if you have any further queries. Thanks. whodreamedit HI Kia thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us FreelyMi If you have any further queries do not hesitate to contact us via our Zara Care account. Thanks. FreelyMi Hi Michelle we appreciate your interest in our products. ThomasPrice details of your query so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. ThomasPrice Hello Tom we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further Polka dots stripes poplin romantic colour palette. Are you into nautical vibes zarawoman zaraeditorial lmaciste en el telfono gratuito . Muchas gracias. whodreamedit are receiving so we may look into this for you. We await your reply. Thanks. lmaciste o de pedidos por motivos de seguridad. Para poder asistirte por favor contacta con nuestro departamento de online whodreamedit Hi Kia were sorry to hear this. Please provide us further details at Zaracare including any error messages that you lmaciste Gracias por la informacin facilitada Javier. No obstante desaconsejamos publicar datos personales silviasilva We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. silviasilva Hi Silvia kindly DM us the items full reference number located in the inner label below the barcode. chicnshout the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. chicnshout Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below PecksinFL We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. PecksinFL Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. camjakuch Bonjour vous pouvez retourner les articles achets en magasin dans toutes les boutiques du mme pays que celui de lachat. Merci jaymichaels Hi thank you for letting us know. Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks. sadiecakesx Hi Sades thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have information regarding this. Thank you. JazmineIleen Hi Jazmine this truly concerns us. Kindly DM us at Zaracare with further details so we may address this matter. Thanks. SlaveryIndex below the barcode printed on the inner labels. Thank you. SlaveryIndex Hello kindly provide us with the reference number of the tee to be able to inform you. You can find it jemmasimmonsy with us in the future and would like to thank you for your interest in our products. jemmasimmonsy Hi Sarah we are glad to read that you are enjoying the shirt. We hope that you keep shopping nanpeacock Hi Nancie we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your feedback. Thanks arlinavanessa We will gladly assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. arlinavanessa Hi Arlina please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. amaa Hi we have replied to your DM. Thanks. abbieploeser Hi Abbie hearing this concerns us. Please DM more details so we may look into this. Thanks. kizerandbender Hi this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we may look into this. Thanks. iREALone que vous trouverez sur ltiquette intrieure sous le codebarres afin que nous puissions vous renseigner. Merci. iREALone Bonjour merci de nous envoyer par MD notre compte ZARA Care la rfrence complte de larticle Ellie Hi Ellie we are sorry to hear that. Please send us a DM with more details to our ZARA Care account to further assist. Thanks. TheShowOff this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. TheShowOff Hi we appreciate your positive feedback. We have forwarded your comments to the pertaining department as danimal Hi Dan we answered your DM. Thank you. davesaid the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. davesaid Hi David please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below WalkFreeFdn the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. WalkFreeFdn Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below Peplum its a nautical vibe New woman editorial zarawoman zaraeditorial zarawoman zaraeditorial LouisCee Hi Louis if there is anything we can help with please feel free to message us back with further details. Thank you. oliviammercer Hi Olivia in order to better assist you with your query please message us back with further details. Thank you. thatsNathan hope your next experience with us will be a positive one. Thank you for your interest in our brand. thatsNathan with the pertaining department and the branch itself so that any necessary improvements may be implemented. We thatsNathan Hi we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that your comments will be shared EbonyGeorgiaS further assist you. If you do not have your order number please send us your billing address. Thank you. EbonyGeorgiaS Hello Ebony thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number and correct email address so that we may michielvdsch in een prive bericht naar onze Facebook pagina Zara Care. Daar zullen wij u verder helpen. Bedankt. michielvdsch Hallo Michiel graag vragen wij om uw gegevens email telefoon nummer en een foto van uw bewijs van aankoop lmaciste al Cliente en Twitter ZARA Care con ms datos y tu nmero de pedido para que podamos ayudarte. Muchas gracias. lmaciste Hola Javier sentimos tu descontento. Por favor envamos un MD a nuestra cuenta de Atencin ebrutastan Bu durumu inceleyebilmemiz iin ltfen iletiim bilgilerinizi ve olaya ilikin daha fazla ayrnty DM ie iletin. Teekkrler. cofrade la localizacin de la tienda en cuestin para que podamos revisarlo internamente. Gracias. cofrade Hola Javier. Sentimos or eso. Envanos por favor un MD con ms detalles a nuestra cuenta de ZARA Care e incluye tambin JujuBertaglia below the barcode. We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. JujuBertaglia Hi Giuliane please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label evervogue We will assist you with this enquiry from our end. Thank you. evervogue Hi please DM us the items full reference number which you can find in the inner label below the barcode. pforpelin Merhaba byle dndnz iin zgnz. Sizlere yardmc olabilmemiz adna ltfen daha fazla detay DM ile iletin. Teekkrler. sophiewalkerr Thank you for bringing this to our attention. sophiewalkerr apologise for the inconvenience caused as our customers experience is very important to us. sophiewalkerr and your feedback will be managed internally with our Zara branch to prevent this from reoccurring. We sincerely sophiewalkerr Hi Sophie thank you for your response. We kindly confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the pertaining area Nautical vibes with a femenine touch Woman editorial now availble online and instores zarawoman zaraeditorial alicenorman DM us more details of your query so that we may assist you further. Thank you. svendimonaco damit wir den Vorfall prfen knnen. Vielen Dank svendimonaco Hallo Sven bitte teilen Sie uns nhere Details in einer direkten Nachricht auf Zara Care mit FernandoRJasso Por favor contctenos a travs de ZARA Care en Facebook en caso de futuras consultas. Muchas gracias. FernandoRJasso mientras que se trate del mismo pas en que se realiz la compra. Esperamos que esta informacin le resulte til. FernandoRJasso Hola Fernando. Le informamos que usted puede realizar devoluciones en cualquier sucursal jaymichaels Kindly DM us the location you visited to further assist you. Thanks. jaymichaels Hi Jay thanks for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. emmylouhays to our ZARA Care account confirming the country of purchase so we may assist you further. Thanks. emmylouhays Hi Emily we are sorry to hear that as all our products undergo strict quality control procedures. Please send us a DM hannahouimet ZARA Home through the following link We hope you find this information useful. Thanks. hannahouimet Hi Hannah thanks for contacting ZARA. Please note that you have reached ZARA Apparel. We recommend contacting Smile and have fun a long summer day. New boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids freedomisst Hi please DM us with further details about your query so we may take a look into this. Thank you. majorkie Hi we are truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us with further details so we can take a look into it. Thank you. beaner Hi we are truly sorry about this. Kindly DM us your order number to further assist you. Thanks. rosaliebaan Hallo Roos graag willen wij u informeren dat wij u antwoord hebben gegeven in een prive bericht. Bedankt. philipineface Hi this truly concerns us. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Damilolaa to our ZARA Care account so we may review this. Thank you. Damilolaa Hello your comments really concern us. Please send us a DM with more details including the location of the store TheKit Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. julialeonetti Hi Julia we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry so we may further assist you. Thanks. macmillan Please DM us via our Customer Service account so that we may assist you. Thank you. macmillan Hello please accept our apologies for the misunderstanding. chloecairnsX area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. chloecairnsX Hi Chlo we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm we have forwarded your comments to the pertaining A long summer day New boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids zaraeditorial sophiewalkerr store location so that we may assist you. Thank you. Alonsovj otra consulta estamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. Alonsovj a que pruebes nuestra aplicacin InWallet que te permitir el pago de tus compras a travs de un cdigo QR. Para cualquier Alonsovj Hola Alonso. Te informamos de que el pago contactless slo est disponible a travs del servicio Apple Pay. Te invitamos Charlkimpton if this item was purchased instore or online. If online please provide the order number. Thank you. Charlkimpton Hello we apologise for this as all of our products go through strict quality controls. Please DM us confirming ElenaRomero Hola. Podemos ayudarte desde aqu No dudes en enviarnos ms informacin por MD a nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. adamboyle Zara Care account Thank you. adamboyle imilar item of your interest. For future queries please refer to our adamboyle online with no plans of future replenishment. We kindly suggest that you visit our New In section where you may find a adamboyle Hi Maddy thank you for showing an interest in our products. Please be advised that item ref. is out of stock CAshy Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. CAshy Hi Chelsea your comments concern us and we would like to apologise for this. rosaliebaan Alvast bedankt. rosaliebaan Dag roos bedankt voor uw bericht. Kunt u ons in een priv bericht uw ordernummer doorgeven. Zodat we u veder kunnen helpen. macmillan We kindly ask you to forward your comments to Zara Home Thank you. macmillan Hello please be advised that your query has come through to Zara Customer Services. mirzaheline Bonjour nous avons rpondu votre MD. Merci. anicccca contact our Customer Care account on Twitter ZARA Care. Thanks. anicccca criteria. However we appreciate your comment and will forward it to the relevant department. For further queries you can anicccca Hello our store opening times for each country are established based on commercial decisions that consider different TroyMunns query as we only deal with Zara customer service queries. Thank you. TroyMunns Hi Troy we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. As previously advised we kindly request that you redirect your A long summer day New boys editorial now available online and instores zarakids zaraeditorial ommorphia Hi Eugenia we have responded via DM. Thanks. Helenwrites regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist accordingly. Thank you. Helenwrites Hello Helen we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information in livhawkins further details of your query so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. livhawkins Hello Olivia thank you for contacting us. We kindly ask you to DM us your order number and thebufandalife Hello Belen please confirm the country you are contacting us from for further assistance. Thanks. LorenaMaside llegue y te llegar un email cuando est disponible. Quedamos a tu disposicin en nuestra cuenta ZARA Care. Gracias. LorenaMaside Hola. En principio est prevista su reposicin en una semana aproximadamente. Puedes usar la opcin Avsame cuando Here comes the sun made for sun TRF editorial zaratrf zaraeditorial zaratrf TroyMunns kindly suggest that you forward your query to Zara Home for further assistance. Thank you. TroyMunns Hi Troy thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that your query has come through to Zara Customer Services. We mytortz to improve our services. Thank you. mytortz permitted in our stores. Kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your feedback to the pertaining area as it helps us mytortz Hi we are sorry to hear this. In the interest of our customers and due to health and safety food and drinks are not doinasaurus Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Your feedback is much appreciated. Thanks for your interest ZARA. alanabrooke Hi Alana we have replied via DM. Thanks. ZackAttackk Hi Zack for future queries please feel free to contact our Zara Care account. Thanks. ZackAttackk However we do not participate in this type of collaboration at this time. Thanks. ZackAttackk Hi Zack your suggestion will be forwarded for consideration. BestStyleBlog Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks. BestStyleBlog Hi Sarah thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. Spring mood made for sun TRF editorial now available online and instores floral and tropical prints zaratrf ommorphia Hi Eugenia this really concerns us. Please DM us with further details so we can take a look into this. Thanks. typotit may be implemented. We hope your next experience with us will be a positive one. Thank you. typotit to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself so that any necessary improvements typotit Hello we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback Channell Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. For future inquires please contact us via Zara Care. Thanks MissLACullen Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. CopyKT browsing data or use a different web browser. Thank you. CopyKT download our Zara app which is more userfriendly. Alternatively we kindly suggest to clear your CopyKT Hello Katie thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that if you are using a mobile or tablet we suggest that you GoonerGuy Hi please be advised that we are unable to locate store stock via this platform. We kindly suggest that you contact our dxnnielle an effort to maintain a consistent appearance across all of our branches. Thank you for your understanding. dxnnielle is a positive one. Due to our store policy we are unable to provide customers with the merchandise from our display. In dxnnielle managed internally with our Zara branch to prevent this from reoccurring. We hope that your next experience with us is dxnnielle Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We can confirm that we have forwarded your feedback which will be simplysham regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. simplysham Hello Shamilla we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information in Adonisgreen that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. Adonisgreen your feedback to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself so Adonisgreen Hello Adonis we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded RozahP Bonjour Rozah pourriezvous nous fournir plus dinformations ce sujet en nous crivant un MD notre compte ZARA Care Merci. KimchiLipstick Nous vous invitons les contacter directement depuis leur site Merci. KimchiLipstick Bonjour Marjorie bien que faisant partie du mme groupe Zara et Zara Home sont deux marques indpendantes. Picotera Gracias por tu mensaje. Trasladaremos tu comentario al rea correspondiente para que se tenga en cuenta. Muchas gracias Andrea. theHannahButler Hello Hannah we can confirm that we are now following you. Thank you. legano is sold out online and will not be replenished. We kindly ask you to check with your local store. Thank you. legano Hello thank you for your patience. Please be advised that item ref. Time for sun clothes made for sun TRF editorial floral prints and shorts zaratrf zaraeditorial deysannah Just tap on the envelope icon on your twitter account and youll be able to type recipient and message. Thanks deysannah Hi please note our DM inbox is open for all customers so that you can send us all the details. emcrawf Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Please note that this platform is exclusively designed to assist our customers. Thanks. Man editorial tailoring. Formal suits to wear this season. Navy grey pale blue zaraman SoYinka Hi thanks for your interest. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to our ZARA Care account. Thanks. theHannahButler your email address and phone number. We will be happy to assist you further. Thank you. theHannahButler We kindly ask you to DM us further details including the store location theHannahButler Hello Hannah this deeply concerns us. Please accept our sincere apologies for the inconvenience caused. lepetitpatito por favor la referencia para poder responderte adecuadamente. Gracias. lepetitpatito y Cuidados localizada debajo de las fotos de cada prenda. Si tiene dudas sobre algn artculo en concreto indcanos lepetitpatito Hola puedes comprobar las instrucciones de lavado especficos para cada artculo clicando en la opcin Composicin legano with the relevant department and we will provide you with further information as soon as possible. Thank you. legano Hello thank you for your product query. Please be advised that we are currently investigating BarryLoweMCR Thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. JesNudabite Hi Jessica we are sorry you feel this way. Kindly DM us more details about your inquiry to further assist you. Thanks. BarryLoweMCR comments to the pertaining area and to the Trafford branch itself in order to implement any necessary improvements. BarryLoweMCR Hi Barry we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. We have now forwarded your deysannah Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details about your inquiry. Thanks. girANAmo Hi Ana we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Man editorial tailoring. Relaxed looks to enjoy this spring. White pannacotta pale pink zaraman thaddeusford Hi thank you for your interest in our brand. Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have further queries. Thanks. AnaBravs que sin duda trasladaremos al departamento correspondiente para implementar las mejoras oportunas. Gracias. AnaBravs Hola Ana. Sentimos que esta haya sido tu experiencia en nuestra tienda. Agradecemos tus comentarios HeyJessGray via our Zara Care account in case you require assistance anytime. Thanks. HeyJessGray Hi Jess we are happy to see we were able to meet your expectations. Please do not hesitate to contact us katlinmcgrath Hi Katlin this truly concerns us. Please DM us with the order details via Zara Care so we may review this. Thanks. ZOEBIN of purchase as per our terms and conditions. Thank you for your understanding. ZOEBIN Hi Zoe kindly be advised that all instore purchases have to be returned or exchanged in one our branches in the same country TheJaneTales future queries. Thank you. TheJaneTales Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. Please do not hesitate to contact us via Zara Care in case of andreonnink Dag Andre we hebben op uw DM gereageerd. Het spijt ons dat we u hier niet mee verder kunnen helpen. taylorswiftwbu so that we may assist you further. Thank you. taylorswiftwbu Hello we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. We kindly ask you to DM us further details edwin Please submit your query through the contact form of your countrys web Thanks. edwin Thanks for your reply. Please note this customer service account is not available for Panama yet. ChannerAmanda Hi kindly be advised that we have now replied to your DM. Thanks. adriinfantino this out in the future. We have forwarded this to the pertaining area as it helps us to improve our services. Thanks. adriinfantino Hi Adriana kindly be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this location but do not rule Man editorial tailoring. Relaxed looks to enjoy this spring. White pannacotta pale pink zaraman Winzton Ihnen bei Ihrem Anliegen weiterhelfen knnen. Vielen Dank. Winzton finden.Bitte besttigen Sie uns Ihre Bestellnummer oder EMail Adresse in einer privaten Nachricht auf Zara Care damit wir Winzton Hallo Winston vielen Dank fr Ihre Rckmeldung. Leider konnten wir keine Bestellung unter der von Ihnen angegebenen Nummer kenzeyjanex our services. Thanks for your interest in our brand. kenzeyjanex Hi Kenzey kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as it helps us to improve finess Hi please DM us your order number to our customer service account ZARA Care account so we may further assist you. Thank you. Winzton Bestellnummer bekannt zu geben. Vielen Dank . Winzton Hallo vielen Dank fr Ihre Nachricht. Um Ihnen bei Ihrem Anliegen weiterhelfen zu knnen bitten wir Sie uns Ihre MeryIglesiasS Trasladaremos tu sugerencia al departamento correspondiente. Buen da Mara. aslLouisal Hi please send us a DM via ZARA Care on Twitter with further details including the country of purchase. Thank you. POOLCORN wird bearbeitet. Fr weitere Fragen knnen Sie uns gerne eine private Nachricht auf Zara Care schreiben. Vielen Dank. POOLCORN Hallo vielen Dank fr Ihre Nachricht. Wir mchten uns fr Ihre Anregung bedanken. Der Fehler wurde bereits weitergeleitet und SmithEmma forwarded to our Lakeside branch. We thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. SmithEmma with the store management. As per our previous messages we can confirm that your comments and suggestions have been duly SmithEmma our customers feedback in order to improve our services and to ensure that this kind of matter is being directly dealt SmithEmma Hi Emma we are truly sorry to hear that this is your impression. Kindly be advised that we are certainly reviewing all edwin Hello please confirm the country of purchase so we may assist you further. Thank you. haluksyl Merhaba sorgunuzu en hzl ekilde ele alabilmemiz iin ltfen konu hakknda detayl bilgiyi bize DM ile iletin. Teekkrler thaddeusford We will most certainly forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. thaddeusford Hi please note your comments are much appreciated as they are an essential part of our continued effort to improve. teresaktraverse on our website We hope you find this information useful. Thank you. teresaktraverse Hello Teresa thanks for your interest in our brand.Regarding your query please refer to the following link tifftess location and date and time of your visit. We await your reply. Thanks. tifftess Hi thank you for bringing this to our attention. Please DM us at ZaraCare with further details including the stores lewarsjoanna order number so that we may further assist you. Thank you. lewarsjoanna ask you to DM us to confirm if this item was purchases instore or online. If online please send us your lewarsjoanna Hello Joanna we are sorry to hear this as our products undergo strict quality controls before distribution. We kindly maredemlynparry that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. maredemlynparry your feedback to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself so maredemlynparry Hello Mared we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded MoggGemma number so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. MoggGemma Hello Gemma we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please DM us your order debbinhapinto department as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you for your interest in our brand. debbinhapinto Hello Debbie thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that your comments will be shared with the relevant shariberhane Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Please note that this platform is exclusively designed to assist our customers. Thanks. MeryIglesiasS remitir tu futuras consultas a travs de ZARA Care en Twitter. Buen da Mara. MeryIglesiasS Hola. El cuerpo volante combinado ref. se encuentra agotado online sin previsin de futura reposicin. Puedes MisterMaddox Hola. Gracias por tu inters en Zara. Sin embargo nuestra compaa no participa en este tipo de colaboraciones. Gracias. raquelperezzz Hola Raquel. Envanos un MD con ms datos y nmero de pedido a nuestra cuenta en Twitter ZARA Care para ayudarte. Gracias. gallacher provide. As previously advised we kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on . Thank you. gallacher Hi Chloe please be informed that we are unable to accommodate your request as this is not a service we currently AwsmLwsn this for you. Thanks. AwsmLwsn Hi we regret your disappointment. Please DM us at ZaraCare with the product you are referring to so we may look into TweetLeni Hi Leni were glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks gallacher visit your nearest Zara store. Thanks. gallacher replenished online. For store availability you may contact our store support team on or you may directly gallacher Hi Chloe thank you for your patience. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is now out of stock and will be not RVT may provide you with further information. Thank you. RVT Hello Rachel thank you for contacting us. We kindly ask you to DM us your query so that we vonedar Bonjour nous vous prions de bien vouloir nous indiquer par MD notre compte ZARA Care votre numro de commande. Merci. EtsieNare Hello thank you for contacting us. Please DM us your order number so that we may further assist you. Thank you. gallacher shortly with more information. Thank you for your patience. gallacher Hi Chloe thank you for your interest in our brand. We are currently looking into your query and we will get back to you MbrownMoo a similar item likely to interest you. Thank you. MbrownMoo with no replenishment. We kindly recommend you to check the Newin section of our website where you can possibly find MbrownMoo Hi Molly thank you for your interest in our products. Kindly be advised that the item ref. is sold out online MagalieJoliveau Nous vous invitons vous rendre dans le magasin de votre choix pour consulter sa disponibilit sur place. Merci. MagalieJoliveau Bonjour la robe avec Rf. est puise sur notre site et elle ne sera en principe plus disponible. EvaMcq llamando al . Gracias por tu inters en nuestra marca. EvaMcq Hola Eva. Para ms informacin sobre nuestra tarjeta Affinity puedes contactar con el servicio de atencin al cliente beadlty CEPF y Oxfam. Puedes encontrar ms informacin en el enlace siguiente Gracias. beadlty Hola. Te confirmamos que toda la ropa recogida a travs de nuestra red de tiendas se dona directamente a Critas Cruz Roja sharmasid Thanks for getting back to us Siddharth. As mentioned we would be happy to assist you via Zara Care on Twitter. Thank you. AnaMarieLugo to be opened in the fall. We apologize that there is no exact date at this time. We hope this is helpful. Thank you. AnaMarieLugo Hi Ana thanks for your interest in our brand. Please be advised that our new location in Buffalo is scheduled VarsityK Hi please forward the details via our ZaraCare DM so we may escalate this query. We await your reply. Thanks. anadelangel Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. anadelangel avisame cuando puedas de la talla deseada para que recib una notificacin tan pronto el artculo este disponible. anadelangel Sin embargo se prev que se reponga en las prximas semanas. Le invitamos a que facilite sus datos en la opcin anadelangel Hola. En respuesta a su consulta le informamos de que el artculo con refencia no se encuentra disponible. DadaBen or take part in these initiatives. Thank you for your understanding and for your interest in our brand. DadaBen Hello thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that Zara does not collaborate thaddeusford Hi Thaddeus we inform you that our Oil on Denim collection is available only in the TRF section at this time. Thanks. MeryIglesiasS Hola Mara. Hemos trasladado tu consulta a nuestro departamento de producto y en breve te daremos una respuesta. Gracias. VarsityK Hi please send us a DM with the reference number and size of the item in question. We will be glad to assist. Thanks. TRF oilondenim Limited collection in collaboration with Mercedes Bellido available online zaratrf mandi store. Thank you for your interest in our products. mandi our store support team on for further assistance. Alternatively you may directly visit the nearest Zara mandi Hi Mandy please be advised that we are unable to locate store stock via this platform. We kindly suggest that you contact JesseJessen Hi DM us more details to our ZARA Care account including the country you are contacting us from to further assist. Thanks. jd original condition within the days returns period and the corresponding receipt is presented. Thank you. jd Hi Josh thank you for your response. As previously advised a refund may be processed ensuring that the item is in TiffRiedel Hi Tiffany please note that we have replied to you via DM. Thanks. daniellebakerr return your unwanted items. Thank you. daniellebakerr Hi Danielle thank you for your response. We can confirm that you may go into any Zara store to jd original condition within the days return period and the corresponding receipt is present. Thank you. jd Hi Josh thank you for contacting us. We can confirm that returns may be processed instore ensuring that the item is in its TRF oilondenim Limited collection in collaboration with Ricardo Cavolo available online zaratrf daniellebakerr our Zara Care account. Thank you. daniellebakerr store the return must also be processed in store. For future queries please refer to daniellebakerr exchanges. Items must be in their original condition with the corresponding receipt. As the item was purchased in daniellebakerr Hi Danielle thank you for contacting us. Please be advised you have days from your purchase date for any returns inodiii Hi please confirm the country of purchase so we may adequately assist. Thanks. javichusoy Hola. Agradecemos tu inters en nuestra marca. Sin embargo Zara no participa en este tipo de colaboraciones. Gracias. laprincesitaPM futuras consultas estamos disponibles a travs de ZARA Care en Twitter. Gracias. laprincesitaPM Hola. Puede revisar la ofertas de trabajo actualmente disponibles a travs del portal Para romkim Hi we have answered your DM. Thanks. SmithEmma us improve our services. We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. SmithEmma we pride ourselves on. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the corresponding department as this helps SmithEmma Hi Emma thank you for your response. We apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused as this is not the service TRF oilondenim Limited collection in collaboration with Mario de Santiago available online zaratrf houseofpearl website for similar styles. Thank you. houseofpearl is not expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit the New In section on our houseofpearl Hi Lisa thank you for your interest in our products. We can confirm that item ref. is sold out online and EsmaAkts Hallo Esma wir haben Ihnen bereits in einer privaten Nachricht auf Zara Care geantwortet. Vielen Dank. BMerida Hola Inma. Podras enviarnos ms informacin mediante un MD a nuestra cuenta de soporte Zara Care Muchas gracias. MarcDermott Thank you for your understanding. MarcDermott We can confirm that food and drink is not allowed in our stores to avoid accidental damage. MarcDermott Hi Marc we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. EsmaAkts knnen Sie uns gerne eine private Nachricht auf Zara Care schreiben. Vielen Dank. EsmaAkts Ihnen bei Ihrem Anliegen weiterzuhelfen. Fr weitere Fragen EsmaAkts Hi Esma wir bitten Sie den Artikel in eine unserer Filialen zu bringen wo Ihnen unsere Mitarbeiter zur Verfgung stehen um aramvandit Hola Aram. Sentimos los inconvenientes ocasionados. Por favor envenos ms informacin por MD para poder asistirle. Gracias. maeganclark unwashed and inside tags still attached. We hope this helps. Thanks. maeganclark Hi Maegan all return must be made within month from the date of shipping confirmation. Items must be unworn RajmaOohLala Hi please send us a DM with your order number. We would like to review it with the pertaining area. Thanks. IAmShayT Hi Shaylan thanks for your interest in ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. ebk Hi please DM us your order number at ZaraCare so we may further assist you. We await your reply. Thanks. philtorres Hi we are glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks MissChanelws Should you require further assistance please do not hesitate to DM us. Thank you. MissChanelws Hi Chanel we are sorry to hear of your impression as assisting customers is our top priority. SmithEmma we may assist you further. Thank you. hemangasarma Hi please note that we have replied via your previous twitter account. Thanks. KamillahRose consistency with all customers we are unable to accommodate your request. Thank you. KamillahRose Hello we certainly regret your disagreement with our return policy. However in an attempt to maintain a level of Rachelleb Hi Rachelle were sorry to hear this. Please DM us your email address and phone number so we may assist you. Thanks. PHATFRANKY your visit to the store so we may address this matter. Thanks. PHATFRANKY Hi Franky were truly sorry to hear this. Please DM us at ZaraCare with further details including the date and time of ebk Please visit for further details. Thanks. ebk Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. Please be advised that the delivery time frame is dependent on the shipping method selected. TheNoseyPanda We are sorry to hear this Layne. We have shared your comments with the relevant areas for their internal review. Thank you. Autenticamia Para futuras consultas puede contactar a travs de Zara Care nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter. Gracias Autenticamia Hola. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con ms detalles acerca de lo sucedido. lozaisaac Hola. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles acerca de lo sucedido. Gracias. ashecorven le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. ashecorven Hola Alberto. Por favor indquenos como le podemos asistir. Para futuras consultas IMthePrincess Hi Tori no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. Laaineeee Hi please DM us your query to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may address your concern. Thanks. sharmasid this matter. We await your reply. Thanks. sharmasid Hi this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may look into lifeofamillion Hello we are sorry to hear that. Please send us a DM with more details to our account ZARA Care to further assist. Thanks. stylos o la referencia del artculo para que te podamos ayudar. Gracias por tu inters en nuestros artculos. stylos Hola Mayca. Por favor envanos un MD a nuestra cuenta de Atencin al Cliente de Twitter ZARA Care con una foto KamillahRose in the future at our Customer Service account ZARA Care. Thank you for your understanding. KamillahRose exchanges out of the established return period. We remain at your disposal for any further assistance KamillahRose Hi please be kindly advised that as per our terms and conditions we are unable to accommodate any refunds or mehreenzahra Hi Mehreen kindly be advised that our Leeds city centre store is open today. Thank you for your interest in our brand. abijepson Twitter account with more details including the Zara store you visited so we may further assist. Thanks. abijepson Hello Abigail we are sorry to hear that this is your perception. Please send us a DM though our ZARA Care NatsyMFC or contact our Customer Care service on so we may further assist. Thank you. NatsyMFC Hello we suggest you submit you query through DM to our ZARA Care Twitter account JemWill Please contact us for future queries on our ZARA Care account. Thank you. JemWill Hi Jemma sorry but we cannot process any refund or exchange without the receipt of purchase. ISRAELALPIDE no dude en contactarnos a travs de nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter Zara Care. Gracias ISRAELALPIDE Sin duda sern trasladados al departamento para futuras mejoras. Para cualquier otra consulta ISRAELALPIDE Hola Israel. Le agradecemos sus comentarios nos ayudan a mejorar. itsdale may address this issue. We await your reply. Thanks. itsdale Hi Dale thank you for contacting ZARA. Please DM us further details at ZaraCare including the time of your visit so LaurenNapier Hi we are sorry to hear thisPlease send us further details such as the store location in a DM to review this matter.Thanks. JLaffan of the store to our Customer Service account ZARA Care so we may assist you further. Thank you. JLaffan Hi John we are sorry to hear this is your impression. Please send us a DM with more details including the location aramvandit Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. aramvandit Hola Aram. Por favor envenos un mensaje privado con ms detalles de lo sucedido para poder asistirle. michelarzhr a travs de nuestra cuenta de servicio de atencin al cliente de Twitter ZARA Care. Gracias. michelarzhr al departamento correspondiente para su consideracin. Para futuras consultas no dude en contactar con nosotros michelarzhr en esta rea pero no descartamos esta posibilidad en el futuro. Hemos trasladado su sugerencia michelarzhr Hola gracias por contactarnos y por su inters en nuestra firma. En estos momentos no contamos con ninguna sucursal TeenieTina Hello please send us a DM with more details to our Customer Service Account ZARA Care so we may assist you further. Thanks. theron corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. theron Hi Liam thank you for your positive feedback. We can confirm that your comments have been forwarded to the Esskizee Hi we have replied via DM. Thanks. fabuleax Hi we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. ohheyvivienne Hi Vivienne please send us a DM with further details. We will gladly look into this with the pertaining area. Thanks. Kukarte al rea de Producto para su consideracin. Gracias. Kukarte factores como el diseo o la composicin de los tejidos. Sin embargo agradecemos tus comentarios y los trasladaremos Kukarte Hola. Sentimos que esa sea tu percepcin. La misma talla puede variar de unos artculos a otros atendiendo a diversos hayitsnina Bedankt voor uw interesse in onze produkten. hayitsnina passende maten aan te bieden. De maten kunnen desondanks variren afhankelijk van het ontwerp pasvorm en samenstelling. hayitsnina Dag Nina bedankt voor uw feedback dit helpt onze service te verbeteren. We proberen voor al onze klanten Hollypops will be able to assess it and assist you further. Thank you. Hollypops kindly suggest that you take the item to your local Zara store at your earliest convenience where a senior staff member Hollypops Hi Holly we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. We kimbot as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. kimbot this area but do not rule this out in the future. We have forwarded your feedback kimbot Hi Kimberley thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that we currently do not have any plans to open a store in francescasegal before distribution. We kindly request that you DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. francescasegal Hi Francesca we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls fabuleax Hi we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. lyondavid our services. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your feedback. lyondavid Hi David kindly be advised that we have now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as it helps us to improve JhonyC in this kind of collaborations. For future queries please feel free to contact our customer service account ZARA Care. Thanks. JhonyC Hi Jhony. We appreciate your interest in our brand however we would like to inform you that our company does not participate pratima We apologise for any inconvenience caused. Thank you. Esskizee Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us the time of your visit so we may verify on our end. Thanks. donjuanreal nternet sitemizde rn fotoraflarnn altnda bulunan Maazadaki Stok Durumu seeneine tklayarak renebilirsiniz. donjuanreal Merhaba alar bu rnde online stoklarmzda sadece ya beden kaldn zlerek belirtir maaza stok durumunu SanazFreeiran Hi Sanaz we are sorry to hear this. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. SIMIcolon Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us your inquiry.Thanks. cchow Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. sumutech Please DM us through our ZARA Care account your case number so we can assist you with your request. Thanks. sumutech Hi Subrata as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details. Courtsjordan website for similar styles. Thank you. Courtsjordan expected to be replenished. We kindly suggest that you visit the New In section on our Courtsjordan Hi Courtney thank you for your response. We can confirm that item ref. is sold out online and is not EsmaAkts uns in einer direkten Nachricht mitzuteilen ob der Artikel Online oder in einer Filiale erworben wurde. Vielen Dank. EsmaAkts Hi Esma wir entschuldigen uns fr die Unannehmlichkeiten. Um Ihnen weiterhelfen zu knnen bitten wir Sie Courtsjordan or the reference number of the item so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Courtsjordan Hi Courtney thank you for your interest in our products. We kindly request that you provide us with a picture donjuanreal Merhaba alar size yardmc olabilmek adna bu rn iin istediiniz bedeni DM ile paylamanz rica ederiz. Teekkrler. awonderemporium We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. awonderemporium Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. donjuanreal Merhaba bunun iin zgnz. Yardmc olabilmemiz iin ltfen istediiniz rnn referans numarasn bize DM ile iletin. Khalidelbaz Hi Khalid onze contact informatie vind u via de volgende link Bedankt. christylaverty We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. christylaverty Hi we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. ellesbelles been forwarded to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. ellesbelles Hi Eleanor thank you for your positive comments. We appreciate your feedback and can confirm that it has Khalidelbaz Dag Khalid stuurt u ons alstublieft in een DM meer details zodat we u hiermee kunnen helpen. Bedankt. sumutech Hi Subrata we are very concerned about this. Kindly DM us more details including your order number to further assist you. Thanks. madisonreiser Hi Madison we are genuinely concerned. Kindly DM us the time of your visit so we may address it with our branch. Thanks. MJHillStrathy Hi we are truly sorry to hear about this. Please DM us with further details so we may take a look into this. Thank you. CassyDinel Hi thanks for contacting ZARA. To better assist kindly DM us more details including your order number. Thanks. SlimzGreenz Hi although no opening has been scheduled for this location we have not ruled it out. Thanks for your interest in ZARA. AlliRains Hi we are truly sorry. Kindly DM us through our ZARA Care account the time of your visit so we may further assist you. Thanks. sweetretreats Please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. sweetretreats Hi as a precautionary measure we suggest not publishing personal or order details. ellesbelles including your order number so that we may assist you further. Thank you. ellesbelles Hi Eleanor thank you for your positive feedback. We kindly request that you DM us further details SamsonKithinjiM your visit to the store. We await your reply. Thanks. SamsonKithinjiM Hi Samson this truly concerns us. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the date and time of grbrennand We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. grbrennand Hi Georgina we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. andybush that we may prevent incidents like this from happening again. Thank you. andybush Hello Andy we again apologise for this. As previously advised your comments will be internally reviewed so Niamah Hi were glad we were able to meet your expectations. We appreciate your encouraging feedback. Thanks andybush so that any necessary improvements may be implemented. Thank you. andybush feedback to the relevant department who will investigate this internally with the branch itself andybush Hello Andy we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. We can confirm that we have forwarded your TKubaszczyk so that we may assist you further. Thank you. TKubaszczyk Hi Tomek we apologise for this. We kindly request that you DM us further details including the stores location chloegreenway corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. Thank you. chloegreenway Hi Chloe thank you for your interest in ZARA. We can confirm that we have forwarded your comments to the MeganAlexandraE regards to this including the stores location so that we may assist accordingly. Thank you. MeganAlexandraE Hello we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further information in RosannaFlautino We hope your next experience with us is a positive one. Thank you. RosannaFlautino confirm that we have forwarded you comments to the corresponding department as this helps us improve our services. RosannaFlautino Hi we apologise for the inconvenience caused as our customers shopping experience is important to us. We can MissChanelws We kindly request that you DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. MissChanelws Hi Chanel we are sorry to hear of your disappointment as our customers shopping experience is important to us. MrMarkDare We can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. MrMarkDare Hi Mark we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigoorus quality controls before distribution. ImmadKayani this including the stores location so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. ImmadKayani Hello Immad we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please DM us further details regarding mizsabb Hi Sabrina we can confirm that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. FiGZ query so that we may assist you adequately. Thank you. FiGZ Hello we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Please DM us further details of your The perfect accessory. Natural fiber handbag with contrasting stripe detail down the front and single top handle philiparthur Thank you for your feedback. philiparthur so this can be reviewed internally to prevent this from happening again. philiparthur Please be advised that we will share your comments with the pertaining areas philiparthur We are sorry to hear about this. This situation concerns us and we would like to apologize for the negative experience. jeremyhengwr We would advise you to make an online purchase instead. Thank you for your interest in Zara. jeremyhengwr We apologize for any inconvenience caused by this. jeremyhengwr is not available for purchase in any local stores in Singapore. jeremyhengwr Hi Jeremy we are sorry to inform you that the item in question QUILTED TOILETRY BAG Ref. CarolGrauer Hi Carol please note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks. CarolGrauer Hi Carol this truly concerns us. Kindly DM us your order number to better assist you. Thanks. realathenalazo more details advising if this is an online or store purchase. Thanks. realathenalazo Hi Athena we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us libbyhalla Please DM us further details so that we may assist you further. Thank you. libbyhalla Hi we apologise for this as our customers shopping experience is important to us. Joricha Hi Jo please be advised that we have responded to you via DM. Thank you. MOLLYHOGAN stores location so we may address this matter. Thanks. MOLLYHOGAN Hi Molly thank you for bringing this to our attention. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the ohheyvivienne Hi Vivienne this concerns us. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details so we may assist you. Thanks. ClausRodgaard details so we may assist you. Thanks. ClausRodgaard Hi Claus were sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM to our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further arockz Hi please send us a DM to our Customer Care account at Zaracare so we may assist you. Thanks. jeremyhengwr Thank you jeremyhengwr please use the check instore availability link that you can find on the page of our website or in INFO on the APP. jeremyhengwr In order to check the availability of an item in a store jeremyhengwr Hi Jeremy thank you for your interest in Zara. The flatform espadrilles. For urban streets or sandy beaches zaranewin philiparthur Hi Philip we are very sorry to hear about your discomfort. Please DM us further details to be able to assist. Thank you. Jessdf Hi we are very sorry about this. We will most certainly share this with the store to implement any necessary improvement. Thanks. ogninjakicks Hi no opening has been scheduled for this location though we do not rule it out. Thanks for your interest in Zara. OliviaWaker possibly find a similar item likely to interest you. Thank you. OliviaWaker replenished online. We kindly suggest that you regularly check the New In section of our website where you can OliviaWaker Hi Olivia thank you for your patience. Please be advised that the item ref. is now sold out and will be not Jessdf Hi Jessica hearing this truly concerns us. Please send us a DM with further details so we can review it. Thanks. Joricha regarding this so that we may assist you adequately. Thank you. Joricha Hello Jo we are sorry to hear this as customer service is important to us. Please send DM us further details everydayrenee Please contact Zara Care for future queries. Thanks. everydayrenee Hi thank you for that suggestion. Your comments will be forwarded for consideration. TheNoseyPanda of your visit to the store . Thanks. TheNoseyPanda Hi thanks for bring this to our attention. Please DM us at Zaracare with further details including the date and time susanmselkirk improvements. Thank you for taking the time to pass on your valuable feedback. susanmselkirk now forwarded your comments to the pertaining area and to the Cardiff branch itself in order to implement any necessary susanmselkirk Hi Susan we are sorry to hear this as our customers experience is important to us. Kindly be advised that we have Fopsporter Dag Thomas de broek is zwart met een rood sierstiksel. We hopen dat deze informatie nuttig was. Bedankt. This is new in Panamastyle hat for sunny days zaranewin anuskigt a nuestro personal. Muchas gracias. anuskigt Hola Ana. El Zara de La Castellana dispone de un bao por planta. En caso de necesitar ayuda no dudes en acudir emmamac and whether you are trying to place your order via our website or the app so that we may assist you further. Thank you. LaneJo Hi Josie kindly note that we have responded to your DM. Thanks LisaBNYC Hi Lisa this truly concerns us. Please DM us further details so we may look into this. Thanks. StephanysChoice Hi Stephany we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. Poppietayley us with further information so that we may assist you accordingly. Thank you. Poppietayley Hello we are sorry to hear this as this is not the service we pride ourselves on. Kindly DM romkim Hi Julie thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. kschay Hi we are truly sorry. To further assist kindly DM us your order number through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. kuzgunkafesi Ltfen yardmc olabilmemiz iin detayl bilgileri bize dorudan mesaj ile iletin. AlkerJaw the future. We have forwarded your comments to the pertaining area as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. AlkerJaw Hi Jack kindly be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this location but do not rule this out in servicehunters forward this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. servicehunters Hi we truly apologise for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly Itzelamadorr Hola Itzel. Por favor envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles para asistirle. Gracias. VisionOfAMogul Hi were sorry to hear this. Please confirm your order number via our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. xofrancescat so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Madamevibe number and a picture of the item clearly displaying its faultiness. We await your reply. Thanks. xofrancescat Hi Francesca thank you for your recent query. Kindly DM us the reference number of the items Madamevibe Hi Taylor were truly sorry to hear this. Please send us a DM via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with the order ItsTiaRenee Hi Tiara please provide details of your query via our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. HelloAva Hi Ava please note that we have replied via DM. Thanks. tedstar reviewing this with the store management. Thank you. tedstar Hi Sam we apologise for the inconvenience caused. We can confirm that we are icegale helps us to improve our services. Thank you. icegale location but do not rule this out in the future. We have now forwarded your feedback to the relevant department as this icegale Hi Sophie thank you for contacting us. Kindly be advised that we currently do not have plans to open a store in this sophjohnno as this helps us to improve our services. Thank you. AndryYak this to the relevant department to implement any necessary improvement. Thank you. AndryYak Hi Andry we truly apologize for your store experience and appreciate your feedback. We will most certainly forward hollyaston for further assistance. Thank you. hollyaston therefore may not attend to every call. We kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on hollyaston Hi Holly we apologise for this. Please be informed that our stores must maintain a high level of customer service HelloAva location so we may look into this for you. Thanks. HelloAva Hi Ava were sorry to hear this. Please provide us the reference number or a picture of the item as well as the stores LaurenSocha Please do not hesitate to contact us back if you have any further queries. Thanks. LaurenSocha Hi Lauren thank you very much for letting us know and for your interest in our brand. heybratwit assist you. Thanks. heybratwit Hi please DM us via our Customer Care account at Zaracare with further details regarding your query so we may aurysmx envenos un mensaje directo con ms detalles de lo sucedido. Muchas gracias. aurysmx Hola Hector. Lamentamos lo que nos comenta. Por favor tatianatayyy through our Customer Care account at Zaracare. Thanks. tatianatayyy Hi Tatiana please be advised that we do not offer this option mentioned. For further inquiries feel free to contact us rebeccaaaa Hi Rebecca thanks for contacting ZARA. To further assist kindly DM us more details through our ZARA Care account. Thanks. nnn We invite you to regularly consult our New In Section to stay abreast of future updates. Thanks. nnn Hi Nan thanks for your reply. We wish to inform you that a release date has not been scheduled for this item yet. HKalinins Hello we are sorry to hear of your disappointment. Kindly DM us more information so that we may assist you further. Thank you. ThisIsEbbe Hi Ebbe please DM us ZARACare. Thanks. PauAalmeida Para futuras consultas le esperamos desde nuestra cuenta de atencin al cliente en Facebook ZARA Care. Muchas gracias. PauAalmeida Hemos trasladado su sugerencia al departamento correspondiente para su consideracin. PauAalmeida Hola. En estos momentos no contamos con ninguna sucursal en esta rea pero no descartamos esta posibilidad en el futuro. JessPiers Hi Jessica kindly be informed that we have now replied to your DM. Thank you. Hugoisaacs Kindly DM us with the device and browser you are using so that we may assist you further. Thank you. Hugoisaacs Hi Hugo thank you for contacting us. Please be advised that or website is currently not experiencing any problems. ambercoxx We kindly suggest that you take the item to store where a member of management will assist you further. Thank you. ambercoxx Hi Amber we are sorry to hear this as all of our products go through rigorous quality controls before distribution. MissLouiseTyrer for further assistance. Thank you. MissLouiseTyrer therefore may not attend to every call. We kindly suggest that you contact our store support team on MissLouiseTyrer Hi Louise we apologise for this. Please be informed that our stores must maintain a high level of customer service Laurajkelb where you may browse our latest collection and find something of interest. Thank you. 